Eco India: What is digital solar, and can it push urban Indians to switch from using fossil fuels?
Support Scroll.in
Support Scroll.in
Your support is crucial: India needs independent media and independent media needs you.
Become a Member
Scroll.in
-
Scroll.in
Become a Member
The Plus
Home
Common Ground
India Fix
Eco India
Latest
The Reel
The Field
Magazine
Video
Trending
‘Viduthalai Part 1’ review: A blistering portrayal of power run amok
Is ‘glass skin’ achievable? A dermatologist answers this and other skincare questions in a new book
The dark side of wind energy along Gujarat’s coast
Bengaluru woman allegedly gangraped in moving car, four arrested
World’s ‘grumpiest cat’ found taking refuge on the world’s highest mountain
Spain Masters Super 300 quarterfinals blog: PV Sindhu into semis with good win Mia Blichfeldt
‘Gaslight’ review: Exactly who is being gaslit here?
Watch: Toddler shoots basketball through hoop behind his back, stuns father and brother
Legally dubious, politically profitable: Why BJP scrapped the Muslim OBC quota in Karnataka
Modi degree: HC quashes order asking Gujarat University to provide details, fines Arvind Kejriwal
Why are Sikhs abroad more pro-Khalistan than community members living in India?
Kalakshetra abuse controversy should force a rethink of power hierarchies in ‘classical’ dance world
Sections
Magazine
Politics
Culture
India
World
Film and TV
Music
Books and Ideas
Business and Economy
Science and Technology
In Pictures
Announcements
Bookshop
Pulse
Become a Member
Ad
Eco India
Eco India: What is digital solar, and can it push urban Indians to switch from using fossil fuels?
Close to 40 GW of India's renewable energy target was supposed to be generated through rooftop solar by 2023. So far, only 8 GW has been achieved.
Scroll Staff
Mar 26, 2023 · 08:55 am
Play
Supervising Producer: Nooshin Mowla | Field Producer & Script: Pracheta Sharma | Video Editor: Amit Garg (Metro Media Works) | Associate Producer: Ipsita Basu | Director of Photography: Dhiraj Katkade | Executive Producer & Voiceover: Sannuta Raghu
We welcome your comments at
letters@scroll.in.
eco india
urban
digital solar
Related
Eco India: Your super-fast online delivery is harming the environment. Is there a fix?
Trending
‘Viduthalai Part 1’ review: A blistering portrayal of power run amok
Is ‘glass skin’ achievable? A dermatologist answers this and other skincare questions in a new book
The dark side of wind energy along Gujarat’s coast
Bengaluru woman allegedly gangraped in moving car, four arrested
World’s ‘grumpiest cat’ found taking refuge on the world’s highest mountain
Ad