Oppo Find N2 Flip Review: An Impressive Debut | Gadgets 360
Home
Guide
Auto
News
Reviews
Features
Videos
Latest
Reviews and First Looks
Buying Guides
Hindi
Cryptocurrency
Entertainment
Events
Features
How Tos
Shorts
Sponsored
TV Shows
Podcasts
Product Finder
Mobiles
Laptops
TV
Tablets
Smart Watches
Headphones
Cameras
Gaming Consoles
Smart Bands
Speakers
Smart Speakers
AC
Games
Refrigerator
Air Cooler
Air Purifier
Washing Machine
Inverter
Compare
Mobiles
Laptops
TV
Tablets
Smart Watches
Headphones
Cameras
Gaming Consoles
Smart Bands
Speakers
Smart Speakers
AC
Games
Refrigerator
Air Cooler
Air Purifier
Washing Machine
Inverter
Brands
Recharge
Broadband Plans
DTH Recharge
Mobile Recharge
More
Cryptocurrency Prices
Digital Gold
Gold Rate
DEALS
Amazon Sale
Flipkart Sale
Movies
Web Series
Service Centers
Smart Home
Finance
Club360
Community
Silver Rate
Opinions
OPPO Find N2 Flip new
Mobiles
Telecom
How To
Gaming
Entertainment
Crypto
Audio
TV
PC/Laptops
Apps
Tablets
Science
Wearables
5G
Shopping new By Croma
हिंदी
HomeMobilesMobiles ReviewsOppo Find N2 Flip Review: An Impressive Debut
Oppo Find N2 Flip Review: An Impressive Debut
Oppo's first foldable in India addresses the two big complaints we've had with its rival.
Written by Roydon Cerejo, Edited by Jamshed Avari |
Updated: 15 March 2023 19:51 IST
The Oppo Find N2 Flip is priced at Rs. 89,999 in India
Highlights
It has the largest cover screen for a vertically folding phone
The Find N2 Flip is powered by the MediaTek Dimensity 9000+ SoC
It features a 4,300mAh battery and 44W fast wired charging
Oppo has long neglected the premium segment of the smartphone market in India. The Oppo Find X2 Pro (First look) arrived in 2020 and we haven't had any other Find series phones until now. The Oppo Find N2 Flip made its global debut in February, and just a month later Oppo has launched it in India. The Find N2 Flip goes up against the only other vertically folding smartphones in India, the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 and its predecessors, which up until now had gone unchallenged.The Find N2 Flip follows the same formula as Samsung and Oppo has implemented similar software features too. Where it distinguishes itself is with its much larger outer display, higher resolution cameras, larger battery, and quicker charging. Are these features enough to make it worth picking over the established rival? Let's have a look.Oppo Find N2 Flip price in IndiaYou get just one variant of the Oppo Find N2 Flip in India, with 8GB of (LPDDR5) RAM and 256GB of (UFS 3.1) storage. The latter is not expandable as the SIM tray only support two nano-SIM cards. Oppo has priced the Find N2 Flip at Rs. 89,999 (before discounts and offers), which coincidently is exactly the same as price of the base variant of the Galaxy Z Flip 4.Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 Review: Flippin’ GoodOppo Find N2 Flip designIf you've used any Samsung Galaxy Z Flip phone, then the Oppo Find N2 Flip will feel very familiar. The phone weighs 191g, and when folded it is extremely compact. It should slip into most pockets with ease. It is thicker than most smartphones in its folded state, but there's no visible gap between the two halves and I almost never had any lint or dust entering the folding display during my few weeks with this device.The Astral Black unit that I used looks very slick, as the matte finish does not attract fingerprints and the texture feels good. The Moonlit Purple colour option also looks very nice in my opinion and has a more glossy sheen.The Moonlit Purple finish of the Oppo Find N2 Flip is subtle and looks good The aluminium frame is flat and has a polished finish, which does attract smudges easily. The dual-SIM tray, USB Type-C port and speaker are placed on the bottom half of the frame, while the top has some cutouts for the secondary microphone. The Oppo Find N2 Flip has a fingerprint sensor embedded in the power button, which is handy since face recognition struggles to work in very dim lighting.Oppo Find N First Impressions: Folding It the Right WayOppo is making a big deal about its new Flexion hinge which is supposed to reduce the crease of the folding display. We're yet to do a proper side-by-side comparison with the Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 4 to see just how much of a difference it makes. The crease is still visible on the Find N2 Flip when the inner display is viewed at an angle, and can still be felt with a finger. The hinge has received a durability certificate from TÜV Rheinland to last beyond 400,000 cycles of folding and unfolding. It has also been engineered to hold its position at angles between 45 and 110 degrees.The Oppo Find N2 Flip is built well and feels premium The outer display is one of the big attractions of the Oppo Find N2 Flip. At 3.26 inches, it's the largest that we've seen so far on a vertically folding smartphone. This AMOLED display has a decently sharp resolution (720x382 pixels), a 60Hz refresh rate, and up to 800 nits of peak brightness under sunlight. It also has a pre-applied screen protector. Having such a large display allows you to do a lot more without having to unfold the phone.Oppo Find X5 Pro First Impressions: A Stunningly Designed FlagshipYou can preview most notifications, access the main quick toggles for Wi-Fi, Airplane mode, etc, and even use special widgets for the camera, voice recorder, weather app, and more. There's also a quick reply feature for certain apps such as Slack, Telegram, and WhatsApp, but you can't compose a custom reply directly from the cover screen. Sending replies in other apps such as Gmail still requires you to unfold the device. I would really like to see support for more apps in the future, and maybe even the ability to compose replies using your voice, if not a full-blown keyboard.The inner display of the Oppo Find N2 Flip measures 6.8 inches when unfolded, and features a full-HD+ (2520×1080 pixels) resolution, a 120Hz peak refresh rate (1Hz to 120Hz variable), up to 1600 nits of peak brightness, and a layer of ultra-thin glass (UTG) for durability. You can use the phone half folded or anywhere within the prescribed range of angles. Certain apps will automatically adapt to that state, which we'll go over in the next section.The retail box of the Oppo Find N2 Flip includes a power adapter and protective case Unlike its rival, Oppo ships the Find N2 Flip with all the accessories one would typically need which includes an 80W power adapter and a hard-shell case.Oppo Find N2 Flip specifications and softwareThe Oppo Find N2 Flip is powered by the MediaTek Dimensity 9000+ SoC. It's a 4nm SoC, similar to the Dimensity 9000 which we've seen in the Vivo X80 (Review), but with a higher maximum CPU clock speed of 3.2GHz. The phone supports a total of 17 5G bands in India, and comes with the usual connectivity features such as Wi-Fi 6, Bluetooth 5.3, NFC, and support for plenty of satellite navigation systems.The phone has a 4,300mAh battery and supports 44W SuperVOOC charging. Wireless charging, sadly, is not supported. The Find N2 Flip does not have any official IP rating either, although Oppo has stated that the phone has some basic protection against moisture.The Oppo Find N2 Flip runs ColorOS 13 which is based on Android 13. It's slated to receive four years of “major” updates and five years of security updates. The UI is the standard fare that we've seen on other recent Oppo smartphones, with a few additional tweaks tailored for the Flip. The Settings app has a ‘Foldable feature' menu which lets you customise the cover screen. You can choose from the preloaded wallpapers, your own image, or one of five "interactive pets". Each pet has 15 animations or actions that they perform when you tap on them. This menu also allows you to customise which widgets you want on the cover screen and their order, and add your own quick reply templates to the preexisting ones.The Oppo Find N2 Flip offers flexibility when it comes to capturing images or videos Oppo has its own version Samsung's Flex mode, which it calls FlexForm mode. It basically readjusts the layout of some apps when the phone is used in a semi-folded state. For instance, YouTube automatically increases the size of the video frame to fill the upper half of the display, while pushing comments and UI elements to the lower half. In the camera app, the viewfinder is pushed to the upper half while the controls are placed on the lower half. You can even swap these positions in order to better frame a subject at an awkward angle.Oppo Find N2 Flip performance and battery lifeI used the Oppo Find N2 Flip as my primary smartphone for about a week, and it was a very pleasant experience, mainly due to the practicality of the large cover screen. I could send basic replies to messages, view notifications, and access basic phone features such as the toggle switches and the camera quickly and without having to open the phone.However, the outer screen is not being used to its full potential. The ability to compose a reply (either by voice or typing) in more apps, especially Gmail, could have been hugely beneficial. It would also have been super useful to be able to see turn-by-turn navigation in Google Maps or even the results of a Google Assistant query on the cover screen. I'm hoping Oppo adds more functionality with upcoming updates.The SoC in the Oppo Find N2 Flip might be flagship-grade for MediaTek but it comes nowhere near the performance of Qualcomm's current flagship processor, at least in benchmarks. The Find N2 Flip scored 710,743 points in AnTuTu, and 1,153 and 3,339 points in Geekbench 6's single and multi-core tests respectively. There's a big difference when compared against the AnTuTu scores of phones based on even the Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 SoC, which is still being used in new 2023 smartphones.Numbers aside, you'd probably never notice this performance difference in actual use because Android 13 runs very smoothly on the Find N2 Flip. Games such as Asphalt 9: Legends and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City looked great and ran well with steady framerates.The Oppo Find N2 Flip offers plenty of customisability for its interface and Always-on display Videos looked very good on the Find N2 Flip's display too. HDR10 playback is supported in apps such as Netflix. Most videos tend to have black bars on the left and right sides due to the extra-wide aspect ratio of the folding display. The stereo speakers sound good and Dolby Atmos is permanently enabled when you're using the speaker. The fingerprint sensor is quick and so is face recognition (under good lighting). The ultra-thin glass layer over the folding display seems fairly durable. I didn't notice any flex when applying pressure with my fingers, however it will dent if you press down with a sharper object or even a fingernail.I found battery life to be more than satisfactory on the Oppo Find N2 Flip. On average, it lasted more than one full day with about five and a half hours of screen-on time, during which the main apps being used were Netflix, Slack, and WhatsApp. In our HD video loop test, the Find N2 Flip ran for 17 hours, 39 minutes before the battery drained completely, which is a good runtime. The phone supports a maximum of 44W SuperVOOC fast charging, even though it comes with an 80W proprietary adapter. I managed to get a 54 percent charge after half an hour, and up to 96 percent after an hour.Oppo Find N2 Flip camerasThe Oppo Find N2 Flip's cameras are assisted by Oppo's dedicated imaging chip called MariSilicon X. There's also a collaboration with Hasselblad for colour tuning when shooting in Pro mode. Just like with the OnePlus 11 5G (Review), you get special Master filters that were co-created with Hasselblad ambassadors, XPan mode, and an orange shutter button. Being a flip phone, the Find N2 Flip lets you capture better selfies when folded since you can use the main rear camera pointing towards you and frame your shots on the cover screen. Weirdly, videos recorded through the cover screen widget are restricted to 1080p, and there's no way to toggle between resolutions.The main rear camera has a primary 50-megapixel Sony IMX890 sensor, just like on the OnePlus 11 5G. The ultra-wide camera has an 8-megapixel Sony IMX355 sensor but without autofocus, which means no macro capability. You don't get a telephoto camera, but you can zoom digitally up to 20X. The selfie camera embedded in the folding display uses a 32-megapixel Sony IMX709 sensor, which was also used in the Oppo Reno 7 Pro. It lacks autofocus but it does offer 2X magnification.Oppo Find N2 Flip main camera sample (tap to see full size)Oppo Find N2 Flip ultra-wide camera sample (tap to see full size)Oppo Find N2 Flip main camera sample (tap to see full size)In daylight, the main camera of the Oppo Find N2 Flip captures good photos. Detail is fairly good, dynamic range is decent, and close-up shots are sharp and well-defined. Colours overall are also quite accurate. The ultra-wide camera on the other hand is a bit weak on detail and colours tend to look bleak. Low-light images shot with the main camera look lively, with vivid colours and good exposure since the app automatically captures long-exposure shots. Details are fairly good even when magnified. The ultra-wide camera struggles to match the colours and exposure of the main camera, producing strictly passable pictures, that too provided there's enough ambient lighting. In very dim lighting, even Night mode fails to deliver any redeemable results. Oppo Find N2 Flip main camera sample (tap to see full size)Oppo Find N2 Flip ultra-wide camera sample (tap to see full size)Oppo Find N2 Flip selfie camera samples in daylight (left) and low light (right) (tap to see full size) The selfie camera can capture good results in daylight. Portrait mode mode works very well too and the results are pleasing. Selfies captured in low light look decent but skin tones are a bit of a hit or miss. Coming to video recording, the Oppo Find N2 Flip can shoot at up to 4K 30fps. In daylight, video quality and stabilisation are both good. Low-light videos tend to look heavily processed with weaker details and a bit of grain. The ultra-wide camera can only capture video at up to 1080p, just like the selfie camera, but the quality is much weaker than that of the main camera in the day and in low light. VerdictThe Oppo Find N2 Flip is a pretty strong first attempt at a vertically folding phone, and in many ways offers stiff competition to Samsung. The more practical outer display, faster charging, and higher resolution primary camera are some of the main reasons to consider it over the Galaxy Z Flip 4. You also get more storage, as the 256GB variant of Samsung's Flip is priced higher.However, I can't ignore two big features that are missing from Oppo's offering: an official IP rating and wireless charging. The ultra-wide camera is also a bit underwhelming, and I don't think the outer display is being utilised to its full potential yet. Still, the launch of the Oppo Find N2 Flip in India means that buyers finally have a choice, and that's always a good thing. The Xiaomi 13 Pro has a hefty price tag compared to the company's 2022 flagship model. How does it fare against other high-end phones launched in 2023? We discuss this on Orbital, the Gadgets 360 podcast. Orbital is available on Spotify, Gaana, JioSaavn, Google Podcasts, Apple Podcasts, Amazon Music and wherever you get your podcasts.Affiliate links may be automatically generated - see our ethics statement for details.
Oppo Find N2 FlipREVIEWKEY SPECSNEWSDesignDisplaySoftwarePerformanceBattery LifeCameraValue for MoneyGoodLarge, practical cover screen
Vivid folding display
Very good build quality
Good battery life, quick charging
Fluid and snappy performance
Capable primary cameraBadUnderwhelming ultra-wide camera
No IP rating or wireless chargingRead detailed
Oppo Find N2 Flip reviewDisplay (Primary) 6.80-inchFront Camera 32-megapixelRear Camera 50-megapixel + 8-megapixelRAM 12GBStorage 256GBBattery Capacity 4300mAhOS Android 13Resolution 2520x1080 pixelsTecno Phantom V Fold India Production Begins; Company Confirms Launch Date, Sale PriceVivo’s X Flip Spotted on 3C Website With Model Number and Fast Charging Details: ReportVivo X Flip With Snapdragon 8+ Gen 1 SoC Shows Up on Geekbench Ahead of Launch: ReportOppo Find N2 Flip Review: Is Oppo’s First Clamshell Foldable Better Than the Galaxy Z Flip 4?More
Oppo mobilesOppo mobiles price in India
Comments
For the latest tech news and reviews, follow Gadgets 360 on Twitter, Facebook, and Google News. For the latest videos on gadgets and tech, subscribe to our YouTube channel.
Further reading:
Oppo,
Oppo find N2 Flip,
Oppo Find N2 Flip price,
Oppo Find N2 Flip price in India,
Oppo Find N2 Flip specifications
Roydon Cerejo
Email Roydon
Roydon Cerejo writes about smartphones and laptops for Gadgets 360, out of Mumbai. He is the Deputy Editor (Reviews) at Gadgets 360. He has frequently written about the smartphone and PC industry and also has an interest in photography. With over a decade of experience covering the consumer technology space, he is also an avid sci-fi movie and TV show geek and is always up for good horror flick. Roydon is available at roydon@gadgets360.com, so please send in your leads and tips.
More
Zcash, Litecoin Among 280 Blockchains Affected by Major Vulnerabilities, $25 Billion at Risk: Halborn
iQoo Neo 8 Tipped to Feature Improved MediaTek Dimensity 9200 Plus SoC Ahead of Debut: Details
Related Stories
Best Mobile Phones Under Rs. 40,000 in India
31 March 2023
Oppo Find N3 Specifications Tipped, May Get Bigger Display, Qualcomm Snapdragon 8 Gen 2 SoC: All Details
31 March 2023
Oppo A1x 5G With 6.56-Inch HD+ Display, 5,000mAh Battery Launched: Price, Specifications
31 March 2023
OnePlus, Oppo Planning to Exit Some European Markets and the UK: Report
27 March 2023
Senior Official of Chinese Smartphone Maker Arrested in Thane for ITC Fraud of Rs. 19 Crore
23 March 2023
Oppo Find N2 Flip Review: An Impressive Debut
Comment
Share on Facebook
Tweet
Snapchat
Share
Reddit
Email
Comment
Google News
Advertisement
Follow Us
Latest Videos
01:45
Two-factor Authentication: Here’s How You Can Secure Your Twitter Account for Free
02:14
Handy Tips to Save Your Mobile Data
03:30
Infinix Smart 7 First Impressions: A Smart Looker!
02:27
Useful Smartphone Apps to Boost Productivity
21:23
OnePlus 11R: Back With a Bang
More Videos
Tech News in Hindi
Redmi Note 12 5G का नया वेरिएंट भारत में लॉन्च, 21,999 रुपये का प्राइस
Acer W Series 4K OLED Smart TV 55, 65 इंच डिस्प्ले के साथ लॉन्च
50MP कैमरा, 5000mAh बैटरी के साथ आएगा सैमसंग गैलेक्सी A24 4G, डिटेल्स लीक
Avatar: The Way of Water हुई OTT पर रिलीज, लेकिन खुश होने से पहले जान ले यह जरूरी बात
Redmi Note 12 Turbo की सेल ने तोड़े रिकॉर्ड! 2.5 घंटे में बिका फोन! 16GB रैम, 5000mAh बैटरी से है लैस
More Technology News in Hindi
Advertisement
Popular on Gadgets
ChatGPT 4
Call of Duty
Xiaomi Mi Pad
Microsoft
Air Conditioner
Refrigerator
Inverter
Air Cooler
OnePlus Nord CE 2 Lite 5G
Realme 6i
OnePlus Nord 2T 5G
iQOO Z6 Lite 5G
Oppo A78 5G
Samsung Phones
Oppo Phones
Xiaomi Phones
iPhones
Gionee F3 Pro
Bitcoin
Galaxy 'S10'
Airtel Plans
Google Pixel 6
Meta
MIUI 14
Tecno Spark 10 Pro
Netflix Games
Am I Next
Latest Mobile Phones
Compare Phones
Latest Gadgets
Oppo A1x 5G
Redmi Note 12 Turbo
Tecno Spark 10 5G
Honor Play 7T
OnePlus Nord CE 3 Lite 5G
Redmi A2
Redmi A2+
Redmi Note 12 4G
Acer Nitro 5 (2023)
Samsung Galaxy Book 3 Pro
Huawei MatePad 11 (2023)
Oppo Pad 2
Huawei Watch Ultimate
Gizmore Vogue
Redmi Smart Fire TV 32
OnePlus TV 55 Y1S Pro (55UD2A00)
Nintendo Switch (OLED Model)
Microsoft Xbox Series S
Panasonic 1 Ton 5 Star Inverter Split AC (CS/CU-NU12YKY5W)
Panasonic 2 Ton 3 Star Inverter Split AC (CS/CU-KZ24ZKYF)
Popular Mobile Brands
Apple
Asus
Black Shark
Blu
Coolpad
Gionee
Google
Honor
Huawei
Infinix
iQOO
Itel
Lava
Lenovo
Meizu
Micromax
Motorola
Nokia
Nubia
OnePlus
Oppo
Poco
Realme
Redmi
Samsung
Sharp
Sony
TCL
Tecno
Xiaomi
ZTE
#Trending Stories
Formula 1 Australian Grand Prix 2023: Timings in India, How to Watch
Moto G Stylus 5G (2023) Renders Leaked Ahead of Debut
Nothing Phone 2 Said to Gain BIS Certification, India Launch Imminent
Redmi Note 12 5G Now Available in India in This Storage Option
How Google Chrome Will Protect Your Incognito Tabs From Prying Eyes
Vivo TWS 2 ANC True Wireless Earphones Review
Bored Ape Holder Loses NFTs Worth $570,000 in a Direct Swap Scam
The 53 Most Anticipated Movies of 2023
Avatar 2 Leaked on Torrents Ahead of Release in India
Robert Downey Jr. to Lead Vertigo Remake From Paramount Pictures: Report
#Latest Stories
Telecom Subscriber Base Rise Marginally to 1,170.75 Million in Jan 2023: TRAI
General Motors Plans to Replace Apple CarPlay, Android Auto With Google's Infotainment System in Future EVs
US Chipmaker Micron's Products to Be Examined in China for Cybersecurity Risks
TerraUSD Founder Do Kwon Indicted in US Following Montenegro Arrest
Apple Wins Against British Antitrust Regulator's Decision to Investigate Its Mobile Browser
ChatGPT Provisionally Banned in Italy as It Is Being Probed Over Privacy Concerns
Tecno Phantom V Fold India Production Begins; Company Confirms Launch Date, Sale Price
DigiYatra Facility Rolls Out at Kolkata Airport for Check-Ins Through Facial Recognition
UIDAI Records Over 1 Crore Mobile Numbers Linked With Aadhaar in February
Samsung Said to Be Planning to Set First Chip Test Line in Japan for Advanced Chip Packaging
About Us
Sitemaps
Feedback
Archives
Contact Us
RSS
Advertise
Career
Privacy Policy
Ethics
Editorial Policy
Terms & Conditions
Complaint Redressal
Gadgets 360 is available in
English
Hindi
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Youtube
Podcasts
Rss
Download Our Apps
Available in Hindi
© Copyright Red Pixels Ventures Limited 2023. All rights reserved.