
Englishहिंदीमराठीاردو
ABOUT US
SUPPORT USLOGIN
POLITICSECONOMYWORLDSECURITYLAWSCIENCESOCIETYCULTURE

RIGHTS
Proposed Digital India Bill Shouldn't Give Govt Power to Block Online Content: Think Tank
The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in its note on the Digital India Bill has said that the IT Act, which it will replace, lacks 'distinct regulatory approaches for harmful and illegal content.'

Proposed Digital India Bill Shouldn't Give Govt Power to Block Online Content: Think Tank
Illustration: The Wire with Canva

The Wire Staff
The Wire Staff
GOVERNMENTRIGHTSTECH
11 HOURS AGO
New Delhi: The Broadband India Forum, a think tank, has warned against the Union government having power to block online content under the proposed Digital India Bill, 2023.

The Bill will replace the Information Technology Act, 2000. Under Section 69A of the Act, the government has power to issue directions for blocking for public access of any information through any computer resource. The government can cite reasons like the sovereignty and integrity of India, defence, security, friendly relations with foreign states and public order behind the decision.

The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, in its note on the Bill has said that the IT Act lacks “distinct regulatory approaches for harmful and illegal content.”

Its draft has not been prepared yet.

The BIF, reports Financial Express, represents companies like Google, Meta, Amazon and Microsoft. In the report, jointly written with xKDR Forum, a non-profit research organisation, it has called for an independent and neutral body to adjudicate on blocking requests in a transparent manner.

The BIF report says that blocking orders issued to intermediaries – social media platforms, internet services providers and others – by the government is censorship and directly affects the rights of the content creator to freely express opinion and that of the public to receive information.

The government recently announced the formation of Grievance Appellate Committees (GACs) which became operational on March 1, 2023, where intermediaries can file appeals against the decisions of the Grievance Redressal Officer of platforms or their failure to act on complaints made to them.

Although noble in concept, in their analysis for The Wire, Prateek Waghre and Tejasi Panjiar write, “Any faith in the GACs also fails to consider that rather than an independent adjudication mechanism, it would be subservient to the Union government.”

The BIF report notes that the government had asked Twitter to take down 248 tweets in 2017 but by 2020, the number had risen to 10,000.

News reports note how the government has periodically blocked certain YouTube channels and mobile apps.

Recently, the government asked YouTube and Twitter to take down videos and links to a BBC documentary on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s role in the 2002 Gujarat riots.

“In any event, the explosion of content on the Internet requires improved state capacity to make correct, time-sensitive decisions regarding blocking online content. Currently, however, the legal framework lacks any clear accountability standards that allow us to assess whether the procedural safeguards have proved effective,” the report said, according to FE.

1
Support The Wire
₹2400 once
The founding preNewslaundry

     
SUBSCRIBE

Video
Report
Podcast
Subscriber Only
Analysis
FoE Con 2023NEW
हिन्दी
Subscribe
Sena
More
MEGHALAYA, NAGALAND AND TRIPURA 2023
Why TMC’s Meghalaya fight may meet Goa fate
Outsider tag, role of money power: The Trinamool has tried to expand outside West Bengal but with little success.
BySamrat X13 Feb, 2023   bookmark_add
Why TMC’s Meghalaya fight may meet Goa fate
Kartik Kakar
whatsapp
copy
It has been two years since the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress pulled off a landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly elections, staving off a no-holds barred challenge from the BJP and the wider Sangh Parivar. Since then, the Trinamool has tried to expand outside West Bengal but with little success.

Its first serious outing, in Goa last year, ended in dismal failure despite an expensive publicity-driven campaign. Its next challenge, in Bengali-majority Tripura, is also unlikely to yield much in dividends, especially after traditional rivals in that state, the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) announced an alliance. That makes its campaign in Meghalaya, which votes on February 27, all the more important for the party.

The TMC is currently the main opposition in Meghalaya. It pole-vaulted to that position from zero seats all of a sudden in November 2021 when the Congress there suffered a split, with 12 of its 17 MLAs under former Chief Minister Mukul Sangma leaving the party to join the TMC. That raised visions of a possible TMC-led government in Meghalaya in 2023, but at the moment, such an outcome – while not impossible – appears unlikely for a number of reasons.

The state of Meghalaya is composed of three distinct geographical regions: the Khasi, Jaintia and Garo Hills, which are respectively dominated by the Khasi, Jaintia and Garo tribes. Of these, the Khasi and Jaintia are linguistically and culturally similar, while the Garo is quite distinct from both. The politics in the state generally breaks down into a separate dynamic in the Khasi-Jaintia Hills and the Garo Hills; it is safe to say that the leaders who dominate the Garo Hills would not be able to win an election in the Khasi or Jaintia Hills, and vice versa.

Both Mukul Sangma and his principal rival, current Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad Sangma of the National People’s Party, are Garo leaders. Both also have their own political dynasties. Conrad Sangma is the son of former Lok Sabha Speaker late Purno Sangma. His brother James Sangma is a minister in the state government while his sister Agatha Sangma is the Member of Parliament from the Garo Hills. Mukul Sangma, a medical doctor who rose from humble beginnings, started his own political dynasty. His brother Zenith Sangma, daughter Miani Shira, wife Dikkanchi Shira, and his brother’s wife Sadhiarani Sangma are all elected representatives from the Garo Hills. 

The political battle between the TMC and the NPP in Meghalaya therefore boils down largely to a turf war between these two leading political families. There are 24 seats in the Garo Hills. A closer look at the details of some of the constituencies there, and the principal contestants, throws up a very interesting picture.

Mukul Sangma’s traditional bastion was the seat of Ampati from South West Garo Hills, close to Meghalaya’s borders with Assam and Bangladesh. He first won that seat in 1993, and kept winning it for the next five terms, up to the last assembly polls in 2018. However, in 2018 he also contested from another constituency in the Garo Hills, Songsak, and later resigned his Ampati seat, putting up his daughter Miani as the candidate there. She duly won the by-polls to that seat on a Congress ticket after he vacated it, but her father’s exit has weakened the family’s hold there. There were murmurs of discontent that Mukul Sangma had left Ampati in favour of Songsak.

This time, he is contesting from two Garo Hills seats, Songsak and Tikrikilla, while his daughter Miani is contesting again from Ampati. His own victory from both seats is by no means certain. In Songsak, he faces a strong challenge from the NPP whose candidate there, Nihim Shira, is a local stalwart of that area who won the seat twice, in 2008 and 2013, before losing to Sangma by less than 2,000 votes in 2018. Chief Minister Conrad Sangma is personally leading the campaign against Mukul in Songsak, which will make things harder for him. In the second constituency he is contesting, Tikrikilla, he faces an even trickier challenge. The sitting MLA there, Jimmy Sangma, was one of the MLAs who had switched from Congress to TMC. Last month, he switched again, to join the NPP. Mukul therefore faces an uphill battle, especially considering the population dynamics of the area. The Garos are a majority in the constituency, but there are large minority populations of the Rabha tribe, and of Bengali-speaking Muslims.

The BJP has put up a strong candidate, Rohinath Barchung, a Rabha. Barchung had contested as Congress candidate in 2013, and lost. Another Tikrikilla local, former state minister Kapin Boro, who was the losing BJP candidate from there last time, is contesting as the Congress face this time. The politics of the constituency is along tribal and community lines, which means that the Garo vote may consolidate behind either Mukul or Jimmy Sangma – but if there is a split in the Garo vote, as appears likely, both of them may face defeat.

The difficulties for the TMC are even greater in the Khasi Hills, for other reasons.

For many decades, an anti-outsider politics was the dominant form of popular politics in Shillong, the Meghalaya capital, which is in the Khasi Hills. This also radiated out into the surrounding areas. There were major riots in 1979, 1987, 1991 and 1992 in which the resident “outsiders”, known in the local language as “dkhars”, were targeted. Bengali and Nepali speakers bore the brunt of it. While all Bengalis, Hindu and Muslim, were liable to face random physical violence as Bangladeshi immigrants, the Nepali-speaking Gorkhas were also targeted on suspicion of being settlers from Nepal.

An old anti-outsider sentiment exists in these areas. The local parties, including the ruling NPP which is a party largely free of all kinds of communal politics, have therefore not missed the opportunity to characterise the TMC as a party of outsiders from Bengal. “If BJP and other national parties are according to Madam Mamata Banerjee outside parties in West Bengal, well, then, their TMC is an outside party in Meghalaya. We have our own political parties; we know how to take care of ourselves,” Conrad Sangma told an election rally in Jowai in the Jaintia Hills earlier this month. It is a point that has been repeated elsewhere as well, and it is bound to have some impact.

The TMC has limited prospects in the Khasi and Jaintia Hills, where the contest is mainly between a local party, the United Democratic Party, and the rest, including NPP, BJP, Congress, a newly-launched party called the Voice of the People Party, and others, including TMC, which has a couple of candidates who can potentially win despite their party symbol. Individual candidates matter more than parties here, and historically, strong candidates have been able to win from almost any party or even as independents.

The field is also more crowded in this part of the state, especially in the Khasi Hills, which has a plethora of local parties.

Until India’s Independence in 1947, there were 25 different Khasi states, each with its own ruler, and something of that fractured polity remains to this day. Although the Khasi Hills have more seats than the Garo Hills, and people from there dominate the state’s public life, in politics it is the Garo leaders who have had long runs as chief ministers because they could muster larger numbers of MLAs. This is a bit of a sore point with many in the Khasi Hills.

There is a desire to see a Khasi chief minister for the first time since 2010, when Mukul Sangma became CM. The UDP is hoping to cash in on that, and has put up candidates on 46 seats, but the traditionally fractured nature of Khasi politics means that it will be lucky to win more than 10 seats in the house of 60. Some of its prominent faces, such as party president Paul Lyngdoh, face difficult challenges in their own seats. Lyngdoh, who is contesting from West Shillong, is up against sitting MLA Mohendro Rapsang of the NPP and BJP Meghalaya president Ernest Mawrie. Rapsang is a well-known builder with deep pockets, which gives him an edge.

Going into the elections, the incumbent NPP – despite facing allegations of rampant corruption and a good measure of anti-incumbency – appears well placed to emerge as the single largest party. It has established a strong presence in all parts of the state, built up its war chests, and will be putting up candidates in 57 constituencies. One of the constituencies it has failed to put up a candidate on shows something of the challenge it is facing from a rising power other than TMC in Meghalaya politics – the BJP.

Till date, the BJP has never won more than three seats out of 60 in Christian-majority Meghalaya. It holds two seats now, both from Shillong. Both were won by candidates who it poached from other parties – candidates who can potentially win on pretty much any party ticket. This time, the BJP has built up a larger roster of such candidates. Among its recent recruits is Martin Danggo, a five-term MLA and former state assembly speaker from Ranikor, who recently quit the NPP to join its ally the BJP. The NPP has been left without a candidate on that seat, which is currently held by the UDP.

The BJP is also mounting a strong challenge against NPP chief Conrad Sangma in his seat of South Tura, where its candidate is a former leader of an armed militant group called the A’chik National Volunteers Council, Bernard Marak, who laid down arms in 2014. Marak’s campaign is set to receive a boost with campaign rallies by Home Minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 18. The BJP and various organisations of the Sangh Parivar have been working hard to expand the party’s footprint in Meghalaya, and this time, the BJP is contesting all 60 of the state’s seats. The stated aim is to have a BJP-led government in the state.

After the last assembly polls in 2018, in which the Congress had emerged as the single largest party, the BJP pointsman for Northeast India, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, had helped cobble together the NPP-led coalition that ruled the state. This time around, the effort is clearly to cut the NPP down to size. The BJP appears well placed to better its highest-ever score of three. The Congress, which was decimated by defections, may also win a few seats despite fielding mostly new candidates. The TMC, UDP, VPP and others are also expected to win a handful of seats each.

The nature of the contest varies from seat to seat. This makes a fractured verdict in which no party has sufficient numbers quite likely. The real deal-making will then happen after the results are in – and that, of course, is something that the BJP excels at.

Various permutations and combinations are possible. For instance, the current combination of NPP, UDP and BJP, who together should be able to muster the numbers, could continue. A TMC-UDP combination allying with smaller parties is also possible. The eventual mix will of course be determined by the results. Ideology is hardly important for the politicians themselves, and – despite the loud rhetoric on television and social media – seems to matter increasingly less to the electorate as well, when it comes to actually voting. Election results in Meghalaya and Nagaland, both of which will vote on February 27, are increasingly determined by money. Political insiders say the cash is already flowing.

Corruption is cited as an electoral issue but the fact that the UDP and BJP were both part of the governing coalition blunts their attacks. The TMC is trying to make something of it although going by past results, cash in hand and gifts may influence more voters than moral qualms about corruption.

Moreover, the elections themselves are just a prelude. The leading role of money may continue after the results come in. The possibility of some version of “resort politics” in which a party is split, as happened in the case of the Shiv Sena, cannot be ruled out.

Electoral politics in India is increasingly a form of entrepreneurship in which large investments are made, in the expectation that the investments can be recovered with profits afterwards.

Update at 10.15 am, Feb 14: Garo Hills has 24 assembly seats. Sadhiarani Sangma is a member of the district council, not an MLA as previously described. This has been corrected.

NL Digest
A weekly guide to the best of our stories from our editors and reporters. Note: Skip if you're a subscriber. All subscribers get a weekly, subscriber-only newsletter by default.

Type your email
SIGN UP
TAGS
Northeast India
meghalaya elections
Comments

Enter feedback / question / suggestion
lock
We take comments from subscribers only!  Subscribe now to post comments! 
Already a subscriber?  Login

Sanjay
last month
Like other state should like newslaundry send in a reporter into tripura for a Groubd report and field assessment ...can that be done at such a short notice I am surprised that newslaundry failed to plan north east and Kashmir ladakh should be covered fully as the rest of the countries citizens are quite unaware of the facts there .

0Reply
You may also like
‘Desire for growth, undermining of social cohesion’: What editorials said on BJP’s rise in Northeast
‘Desire for growth, undermining of social cohesion’: What editorials said on BJP’s rise in Northeast
NL Team
‘Modi on top, Cong over the hill’: Front pages on the Nagaland, Tripura and Meghalaya results
‘Modi on top, Cong over the hill’: Front pages on the Nagaland, Tripura and Meghalaya results
NL Team
Daily Dose Ep 1291: BJP set to retain Tripura and Nagaland, SC panel on Hindenburg
Daily Dose Ep 1291: BJP set to retain Tripura and Nagaland, SC panel on Hindenburg
NL Team
About
About Us
NL Explained
Meet the team
Contact Us
Careers
Privacy Policy
Terms of Services
Subscription
Subscribe
Account Details
NL Legal Fund
Subscriber FAQ
Paywall Stories
Podcast Letters
Student Subscription
Noteworthy
न्यूज़लॉन्ड्री हिन्दी
Newsletters
NL Store
NL Recess
NL Interviews
The Media Rumble
Books
Follow
rss
apple podcast
telegram
linkedin
spotify
linkedin
Download the Newslaundry app
google play store button
app store button
© Newslaundry Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.mise of The Wire is this: if good journalism is to survive and thrive, it can only do so by being both editorially and financially independent.This means relying principally on contributions from readers and concerned citizens who have no interest other than to sustain a space for quality journalism. For any query or help write to us at support@thewire.in
I would like to contribute
Once
Monthly
Yearly
Select amount
₹200
₹1000
₹2400
Type an amount
Continue
2
Add contact details
3
Review & Pay

ALSO READ
RIGHTS
Anand Teltumbde Explains the Genesis of His Articles on Bhima-Koregaon
RIGHTS
In 'Selective' Demolition, Muslim Structures Razed But Temple Spared in Gujarat's Dwarka
RIGHTS
MHA Decision Strips Six Prominent Disability, Human Rights NGOs of FCRA Licences
RIGHTS
Gujarat HC Sets Aside CIC's Order Asking GU to Provide Info on PM Modi's MA Degree
MORE
ABOUT US
TERMS & CONDITIONS
PRIVACY POLICY
REFUND POLICY