
Englishहिंदीमराठीاردو
ABOUT US
SUPPORT USLOGIN
POLITICSECONOMYWORLDSECURITYLAWSCIENCESOCIETYCULTURE

OPINIONRIGHTS
Anand Teltumbde Explains the Genesis of His Articles on Bhima-Koregaon
Instead of addressing the pathetic condition of Dalits, many Ambedkarites are busy promoting a devotional cult of Babasaheb, hollowing out his radical content and helping the ruling classes exploit his legacy.

Anand Teltumbde Explains the Genesis of His Articles on Bhima-Koregaon
Visitors arrive at the 201st Anniversary of Koregaon Bhima Victory Pillar at Bhima Koregaon Village near Pune city. Photo: Manvender Vashist/PTI

Anand Teltumbde
Anand Teltumbde
RIGHTS
9 HOURS AGO
In view of the controversy my article in The Wire of January 2, 2018 created – which I did not have an occasion to respond to with an explanation due to my entrapment in the case that paradoxically pivoted on the allegation that I was the main organiser of the Elgar Parishad – this note is intended to explain the factual background and motive for my writing the article.

Incidentally, it was not the only article I wrote on the topic; there were two more pieces which were completely ignored by those seeking to attack me. On the basis of whatever happened to me thereafter, it may not be difficult to guess the source of this controversy.

However, with a hope that many Dalits who fell prey to the motivated propaganda of some police agents masquerading as Ambedkarites would want to know the truth, I am writing this explanation. Far from being apologetic, I will additionally demonstrate how the so-called Ambedkarites have – not unlike the Sanghis – inverted the meanings of what Babasaheb Ambedkar actually meant and stood for.

It all began thus

I was in an important academic meeting of my institute in Goa in late 2017 when Justice P.B. Sawant telephoned me. By the time I went out to speak, Justice Kolse Patil was on the phone and he informed me about their plan to observe the 200th anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon battle in a contemporary context. He said a meeting of all progressive intellectuals and activists of Maharashtra was planned at Pune to discuss the plan and I was invited to attend.

Since I was quite immersed in my new programme, India’s first, in big data analytics, I politely regretted. He then requested me to be on the convening committee along with Justice Sawant and himself and many other intellectuals and activists, which I happily accepted with the proviso that I might not be in a position to contribute much or even attend meetings/programmes. It is thus that I, the only non-resident of Maharashtra, came to be included in the convening committee for whatever was to be planned to observe this event.

No one contacted me thereafter on this matter. Suddenly, I noted pamphlets flashed on WhatsApp, which gave an idea that many cross caste-community organisations and individuals had joined the organisation of the Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017. Significantly, these included some prominent Maratha organisations, which to my memory had never joined Dalits on a political agenda.

I was extremely pleased with this historic development. But then came some more pamphlets –which created the impression that the Bhima-Koregoan battle was won by the Mahar soldiers as though to avenge the oppressive Brahminic rule of Peshwas. I saw this as the usual stereotype of Dalits making the battle their identity marker, which could potentially jeopardise the incipient unity of Dalits and non-Dalits that was being achieved perhaps for the first time. For, if the victory was projected solely due to Mahar valour, why would others join them?

As I pointed out, the facts too did not bear this out – there was a majority among the martyrs (as engraved on the obelisk) who were not Mahars. Moreover, it was perhaps anachronistic to attribute the valour of Mahar soldiers to the consciousness against caste oppression in 1818, which as a matter of fact would take almost a century to germinate. It was, in my opinion, important to commemorate the victory against the debauched Brahminic rule of Peshwas which was oppressive to all non-Brahmin castes so as to inspire them to rise against its contemporary incarnate – the BJP’s rule.

It is from this anxiety that I wrote my fateful piece in The Wire, which annoyed a section of Ambedkarites and which came handy for some to whip up a campaign against me that I was ‘anti-Ambedkar’.


Babasaheb Ambedkar expected his disciples to be prabuddha (enlightened), which is much more than being educated and being able to scribble nonsense on WhatApp or Facebook. Photo: PTI

And the article happened

The precise context of that article may also be necessary to explain. As I told Justice Kolse Patil, I never had a plan to attend the commemorating event. However, nearer the date, one of my classmates in IIM-Ahmedabad and a friend who lived in Switzerland invited me for the marriage of his son which was to be solemnised in Pune on December 31, 2017 at 10 am.

In view of our family relations over many years, I just could not decline his invitation. Consequently, my wife and I engaged a driver and started off from Goa for Pune on the previous day. On the way, Siddharth Varadarajan, the founding editor of The Wire, called me to solicit a piece on the impending event on December 31, 2017, to which I agreed.

Nearer Pune, we noticed the treading on two tyres of our car had given way, creating an anxiety in us to change it at Pune before starting off for Goa the next day. We reached Pune and checked in to the hotel our friend had booked. After dinner, I began writing the article on my laptop which always accompanied me. I decided to give expression to my fond theme that Dalits should shun their identity obsession and strive to build a broad unity with others along class lines using the context of the anniversary of the Bhima-Koregaon battle. I left the skeleton of the article and retired for the night.

The next day, we attended the marriage in the hall just across the road, had lunch and hurriedly checked out of the hotel to search for tyre shops on our way. None of us knew the exit roads to Goa. As we started off from the hotel, we saw Shaniwarwada, where the Elgar Parishad was to take place. On the fly, we decided to stop for few minutes and saw some friends at the stall of Prabuddha Bharat. The stage was being set up and we did not find anyone known to us there. We soon resumed our mission of finding a tyre shop.

Having made unsuccessful attempts at a couple of shops, we reached the highway petrol pump, where we fueled our car and learned that we could get tyres only at Satara fata. We changed two tyres there and reached Goa at midnight. On the way, as I am wont, I finished the article in the car.

The next morning, i.e., January 1, 2018, amidst my academic chores, I mailed the article to Varadarajan and got busy with my routine. When I went home at around 2 pm, my wife informed me about the attack of the Hindutva goons on the Dalit congregation at Bhima-Koregaon. The TV was on and I could see footage of saffron flag waving crowds attacking Dalits. It was shocking. In the evening, I had a meeting but the horrific scenes on TV haunted me all along and I forgot about the article, which was published the next day in The Wire.

Also read: On the History and Memory of the Battle of Koregaon

What is it to be Ambedkarite?

Though I received quite a few congratulatory messages, my detractors had a field day. They created a chorus that I was anti-Ambedkar or that I insulted Babasaheb Ambedkar by calling Bhima-Koregaon a myth. None refuted the facts I had mentioned or touched the theme of the article. Instead, they reveled in suicidal irrationality, ignorance and abuse – all un-Ambedkarite depravities.

Babasaheb Ambedkar expected his disciples to be prabuddha (enlightened), which is much more than being educated and being able to scribble nonsense on WhatApp or Facebook. As for the meaning of following Babasaheb Ambedkar, these worthies should read his Ranade, Gandhi and Jinnah wherein, more than any of his contemporaries, he elucidated the relationship between the master and disciple. I know they would never read it in original and hence give here the requisite extract from it to open their eyes:

All Liberals I know will say our duty is to follow the master. What else could be the attitude of a devout band of disciples?  It means that a great man works by imposing his maxims on his disciples. It means that the disciples should not be wiser than the master. Both these conclusions are wrong. They do injustice to the master. No great man really does his work by crippling his disciple by forcing on them his maxims or his conclusions. What a great man does is not to impose his maxims on his disciples. What he does is to evoke them, to awaken them to a vigorous and various exertion of their faculties. Again the pupil only takes his guidance from his master. He is not bound to accept his master’s conclusions. There is no ingratitude in the disciple not accepting the maxims or the conclusions of his master. For even when he rejects them he is bound to acknowledge to his master in deep reverence “You awakened me to be myself: for that I thank you.” The master is not entitled to less. The disciple is not bound to give more. [Babasaheb Ambedkar, Writings and Speeches,Vol. 1, p. 240 (Govt. of Maharashtra),]

A sincere Ambedkarite would be disturbed seeing the pathetic condition of Dalits, and of the institutions Babasaheb established and left behind. He would invest his or her intellectual energy to addressing what went wrong and not promote a devotional cult which Ambedkar detested. They would be able to see that what I have been doing is the former – analysing the past and trying to contribute to strategies for future, and not showing off my scholarship for any gain whatsoever, unlike most others.

While this is what a true follower of Ambedkar ought to be doing, many are doing the latter – promoting a devotional cult of Ambedkar, hollowing out his radical content and helping the ruling classes exploit his legacy. This is precisely what his followers ought not to be doing. In terms of Babasaheb Ambedkar’s assessment in the above quotation, all those engaged in shouting ‘Ambedkar ki jai’ and variously showering encomia on him are actually eulogising their own identity and not necessarily upholding Ambedkar and his ideas.

Only those few who have adopted the arduous path of critical analysis, unbeknownst to them, are the true followers of Babasaheb Ambedkar. I leave the task of judging who is insulting Babasaheb Ambedkar to discerning readers.

The other articles I wrote

My piece in The Wire was not the only article that I had written on the topic. Actually, after the attack on January 1, 2018, I had written an article which was carried by News18, which historically situated the Bhima-Koregaon battle in the Dalit universe. It was not in any way a contradiction of what I wrote in The Wire, nor was it written out of ‘fear’, as some of my ignorant detractors have tried to suggest.

In response to their abuses, I had in fact also written a strong rejoinder –‘Bhima–Koregaon: Myth, Metaphor and Meta-Mission’ –  in my column in the Economic and Political Weekly. This article was a response to the critique from an unlikely person, my scholar friend Kancha Ilaiah Shepherd.

The purpose of writing this explanatory note is not as much to clear my own position vis-à-vis my detractors, for I really do not care about them, as to clear the thickening dirt being spread by them and their ilk in the name of Babasaheb Ambedkar which is disorienting emancipatory movements in the country.

Anand Teltumbde is former CEO, PIL, professor, IIT Kharagpur and GIM, Goa; writer and civil rights activist.

1
Support The Wire
₹2400 once
The founding premise of The Wire is this: if good journalism is to survive and thrive, it can only do so by being both editorially and financially independent.This means relying principally on contributions from readers and concerned citizens who have no interest other than to sustain a space for quality journalism. For any query or help write to us at support@thewire.in
I would like to contribute
OnceNewslaundry

     
SUBSCRIBE

Video
Report
Podcast
Subscriber Only
Analysis
FoE Con 2023NEW
हिन्दी
Subscribe
Sena
More
WHO OWNS YOUR MEDIA?
Who Owns Your Media: The Indian Express empire and where it stands today
A Newslaundry series that deciphers the ownership of India's major news organisations.
ByPooja Bhula25 Mar, 2023   bookmark_add
Who Owns Your Media: The Indian Express empire and where it stands today
Shambhavi Thakur
whatsapp
copy
Twenty-three years ago, Robin Jeffrey, a professor of politics at Melbourne’s La Trobe University, had described Ramnath Goenka’s “Indian Express empire” as the “grandest version of newspapers with some link to the ‘freedom struggle’” in his book. When Goenka died in 1991, Jeffrey wrote in India’s Newspaper Revolution: Capitalism, Politics and the Indian-Language Press (1977-99)  that “his newspapers were published in cities and towns in every region of India except Calcutta and the east.”

But the Indian Express was not started by Goenka. It was started in 1932 by Varadarajulu Naidu, an ayurvedic doctor and Congressman. According to Warrior of the Fourth Estate by BG Verghese, the newspaper was priced at one anna and published by Naidu’s Tamil Nadu press. In the first issue on September 5, 1932, the front page was solely devoted to seven display advertisements and the masthead was ornate with a crest resembling a coat of arms inscribed with a Tamil motto. 

While the book doesn’t say what that motto was, it does give us the credo Naidu declared in the first editorial of this fledgling newspaper:

“Owing no allegiance to any political party in the country, it will stand staunchly for freedom in all national spheres of activity. Non-communal in outlook, it will advocate justice to all communities in political, social and economic life with a view to welding all of them into a great Indian Nation.”

But running a daily newspaper even then was no easy feat. Verghese writes, within weeks, Naidu was in financial trouble and sold the paper to Swaminathan Sadanand, who had founded nationalist news agency Free Press Service and would later start Free Press Journal. A year later, with Ramnath Goenka’s support, the Express opened an office in Madurai and launched a sister paper in Tamil, Dinamani.

Sadanand too began struggling. That’s when Goenka stepped in, bailing Sadanand out by buying debentures worth Rs 30,000. Yet, financial difficulties persisted. Dinamani came under government scrutiny and Free Press Service collapsed in 1935.

So, on October 1, 1936, Publicity Madras Ltd was floated with Goenka as managing director holding 51 percent shares. Sadanand held the balance.

The book says that C Rajagopalachari, premier of the Madras presidency in the late 1930s, had urged Goenka to rescue and rebuild Indian Express, but Sadanand fought to regain control. Relations strained and a legal battle ensued. Meanwhile, Sadanand introduced several innovations and reduced the newspaper’s price.

Goenka finally reached out to Jamnalal Bajaj for financial help to buy Sadanand’s stake. Bajaj did help, but the book says it can’t be ascertained how he helped. It also doesn’t confirm whether this was when Indian Express’s complete buyout by Goenka took place.

But Verghese writes that although Sadanand and Goenka “parted company over control of the Indian Express in Madras, they remained close friends and had mutual regard for one another”.

Ramnath Goenka: Bania from Bihar to a national media baron

Goenka was born in 1904 to a Rajasthani bania family in Bihar. He was six months old when his mother died and was adopted by his paternal uncle’s widow. Verghese writes that Goenka got little formal schooling in Darbhanga and Janakpur in Nepal. At the age of 12, he was married to 10-year-old Moongi Bai with whom he later had three children: Bhagwandas, Krishna and Radha.

While the book is unable to explain why Goenka had to leave studies early, it determines that Goenka was 16 when he joined his adopted mother’s merchant brothers in Calcutta. He also apprenticed with an established yarn and piece goods dealer.

During the Jallianwala Bagh massacre, apparently Goenka too was rounded up for joining a protest against the Rowlatt Act. Verghese guesses the Marwari community would have been alarmed – politics and business didn’t mix, after all – and sent him away to distant Madras.

This may have sowed the seeds of nationalism in Goenka’s heart, later inspiring him to enter the media and use it to carry the torch of nationhood throughout his life. 

Goenka started his independent journey as a partner in a financial broking company in 1926. In the same year, at just 22, he was elected to the Madras Legislative Council as a trade and commerce representative. He was involved in a variety of business ventures. It was also in these years that his tryst with real estate began which, as Verghese writes, time and again proved a hedge against the political and commercial misfortunes faced by his newspapers. 

Besides taking over Indian Express and Dinamani, Goenka started Andhra Prabha in 1938 and eventually owned a chain of newspapers throughout South India. In 1944, he started the Nationalist with Syama Prasad Mukherjee and also handed him the sister paper, Bharat, but they soon parted ways. 

In 1945, Goenka launched Eastern Express on his own in Calcutta. It failed, Verghese writes, and was sold to the Jain Trust in 1946. But what did succeed that year was his takeover of Morning Standard and Sunday Standard from NJ Hamilton, an Irishman who started both papers after quitting the Illustrated Weekly of India. 

Also successful was Sadanand and Goenka’s proposal to the Indian and Eastern Newspaper Society to launch a news service cooperatively owned by the newspapers of India. Thus, Press Trust of India was born; it was incorporated in Madras on August 27, 1947.

Two years on, the Express group launched its Marathi daily Loksatta, Marathi magazine Lok Prabha, and film magazine Screen. In 1952, Gujarati language Jansatta and Loksatta were registered and published from Ahmedabad and Baroda. 

Goenka first got involved with Chronicle in 1948, when Tej group’s Deshbandhu Gupta began running losses and wanted to partner. Later, when Gupta died in a car crash (in 1951), Goenka was compelled to take it over. Chronicle had been renamed Indian News Chronicle when they’d partnered, and was now rechristened Delhi Express, and eventually Indian Express in 1953. Jansatta too got a Delhi edition.

In 1957 came Indian Express’s Madurai edition followed by editions in Bangalore (1965) and Ahmedabad (1968). Financial Express appeared in 1961 and Kannada Prabha in 1967.

In the mid 1970s, Goenka – who had become a great supporter of Jayprakash Narayan after his disillusionment with the Congress – felt JP needed a paper to promote his message and movement. Everyman and its Hindi counterpart Prajaniti were launched and treated as separate entities to avoid compromising Express’s identity and credibility. Both eventually folded.


Made with Flourish
The Emergency: Great pain, great fame

During the Emergency years from 1975 to 1977, LK Advani famously said the media was asked only to bend – but it crawled.

Robin Jeffrey wrote:

“A few publications, including Raj and Romesh Thapar’s Seminar, closed down in protest against censorship...But large newspapers were simply too vulnerable: they needed electricity, newsprint, access to their presses – all of which could be quickly halted by a determined government. Their owners and journalists had commitments: assets to lose, mouths to feed, school fees to pay, cars to run. Mrs Gandhi abolished the Press Council, merged the four existing news services into one, and even forced Ramnath Goenka to reconstitute the board of the Indian Express chain with KK Birla, already chairman of the Hindustan Times, as chairman. As well as censorship, the threat of closure and the arrest of journalists, the central government used advertising unblushingly to reward the cooperative and punish the recalcitrant. Central government expenditure on advertising more than trebled during the ‘emergency’, and pliable newspapers found not only the volume of advertisements increase, but also the rate for them.”

Indian Express was, according to this report, the leader in putting up a resistance. Along with Statesman, it  was the first to protest the Emergency in their pages. The day after the Emergency was announced, they left their editorial pages blank, a move soon followed by other publications. 

Until the Emergency ended, the penalty for resistance for The Indian Express and Statesman was a complete ban on government advertising. Indian Express also faced sudden “electricity failures”, fomenting of strikes in the newspaper, raids on the Express offices, and notices sent in connection with income tax and the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act.

But Goenka was relentless, using all his might, tact and legal mettle to battle them so Express could keep the mighty pen writing. 

When censorship was lifted, Britannica notes, Goenka’s newspapers published a series of exposés on forced sterilisations, mass resettlements of the very poor, widespread corruption, and political arrests. These reports, it says, were a key factor in Indira Gandhi’s defeat in 1977 and the Janata Party’s rise. 

When Gandhi was reelected in 1980, Indian Express was again deluged with notices on tax and property violations. A truce was called only after she was assassinated in 1984 and succeeded by Rajiv Gandhi. 

But 1987 onwards, Brittanica says, Indian Express’s stinging editorials and cartoons against Rajiv Gandhi were largely credited with securing VP Singh’s election victory in 1989.

War on values leads to corporate war 

That said, a lot of Indian Express’s exposés about questionable governmental favours, official corruption, Bofors and more resulted really from a fallout with Dhirubhai Ambani. 

Here’s an excerpt from Verghese's book:

 “Like RNG, Dhirubhai was prone to bet on people who were out of power as that, he felt, was a time to build relationships. Thus he had cultivated Indira Gandhi after 1977. In what was still a licence-permit raj, he thought it best to go along with the government and accordingly sought proximity to Rajiv Gandhi when he assumed office in succession to his mother...RNG and Dhirubhai enjoyed a warm and cordial friendship. Indeed, when Reliance made a rights issue in 1985, Dhirubhai obtained from RNG names of media persons who might be offered shares from the promoter's quota...Then came the breach. The story goes that RNG and Dhirubhai were seated side by side on a Delhi-Bombay flight. In the course of conversation Dhirubhai apparently remarked that everybody had his price, even journalists, and, depending on his potential worth, he (Dhirubhai) would aim ‘a silver or golden boot’ at him. Those close to Dhirubhai deny any such crudity.” 

Further, Verghese wrote Goenka, who was then chairman of PTI, was incensed on learning from its general manager that a story published by PTI had been planted. Moreover, other such alleged plants followed on matters concerning RIL – one or two in Indian Express and Financial Express too. 

Verghese writes: “RNG was furious. He felt that if Dhirubhai could buy the Express and PTI, he could buy the whole country and manipulate the media. The man had to be stopped.”

That’s when Goenka decided to take on Reliance and investigate its corporate war with Bombay Dyeing, RIL’s principal rival in the petrochemical arena. 

Structural changes and succession

Like Robin Jeffrey, Verghese too noted that by the late 1980s, “the Express was a sprawling multiedition, multilingual chain, the likes of which had been unknown in India any time before.” In just 43 years, Goenka noted in a letter during the Emergency, he had made the organisation India’s largest with a circulation of about a million copies a day!

But Goenka also realised that the paper was rapidly losing its place. He wanted to reinvent it, give it a distinct personality. His strategy was two-pronged. The first was to pad all news and analysis with social and economic context while continuing to give equal space to investigative stories. The second was to better tap the regional space since, as he observed, Indian languages were fast replacing English everywhere. For this, he suggested assigning resident editors to regional editions so they could develop them into newspapers in their own right, as “autonomous units of a national chain”.

Later on, another matter of importance was succession. Goenka had struggled with this question after his son Bhagwandas suddenly died of a cardiac arrest in 1979. 

Bhagwandas had married Saroj Jain, paternal aunt of TOI’s Samir and Vineet Jain and daughter of SP Jain. Verghese’s book notes that the grandchildren – from Goenka’s daughters because Saroj and Bhagwandas had no children – were inducted into the management to assess their capabilities. 

Goenka narrowed it down to his daughter Krishna’s son Vivek Khaitan and his daughter Radha’s son Manoj Sonthalia. They’d variously managed the Bombay and Delhi centres, and the Madras and southern editions, respectively.

Goenka had also considered a trust as, like some senior editors and close friends, he too considered Express something of a national institution. But after a massive heart attack in 1991, he adopted Vivek and reconstituted the Express board with close associates like Nusli Wadia, Venu Srinivasan and Vivek. The adoption caused a rift in the family. That’s also when Vivek took on Goenka as his last name. We’re not sure when the spelling of his first name changed, but in MCA documents from the mid-2000s it’s ‘Viveck’. 

The group’s shareholding also underwent changes. The property companies were separated from the newspaper ones, with most of the former going to Saroj while Ramnath became almost the sole owner of the newspaper companies.

Goenka decided to transfer 62.72 percent shares to Viveck and 33.12 to Manoj. Radha Sonthalia held the balance 0.16 percent. After Goenka’s death in 1991, Nusli Wadia honoured that commitment. 

Manoj and Saroj challenged this in the Madras High Court but got no relief. Manoj and Viveck eventually entered into a settlement in 1995 whereby Sonthalia took charge of the Madras, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Cochin and other southern editions, while Viveck kept Delhi, Chandigarh, Bombay, Pune and Gujarat as well as Financial Express. Manoj’s southern fold eventually became the New Indian Express.

Saroj too settled in 1997, inheriting a large part of the property companies but no share in the newspaper business.


Gen Next: Split, struggles, recovery

In the years that followed, Indian Express – now only denoting Viveck’s group – didn’t do too well. In 2007, Mint reported on a grim but candid letter by Shekhar Gupta, Express’s then CEO and editor in chief, to employees. 

He wrote, “In a year when the media industry has grown by nearly 25%, our revenues have declined by 3%.” He added that it “does look to me as if all of us took our eye off the ball...The truth is that we have been much too forgiving with ourselves in a marketplace getting less forgiving by the day.”

Gupta said he’d requested members of the top management team to take a wage freeze for the year, while deferring a significant part of his own compensation until “we see some real improvement”. Further, Gupta said “the action with some others amongst us, in the senior team, I am afraid, had to be harsher. Some others are under close watch. I can say very little on this except to add that nothing would make me happier than being able to report a turnaround to you, and I do hope that, working together, that day will come soon.”

Mint said the group at the time was looking for private funding while also toying with the idea of going public. Neither explorations seem to have fructified. In fact, in 2015, Vivek’s son Anant Goenka doused rumours with an official clarification stating that Indian Express was not up for sale – not to Ambani nor to News Corp, as whispers suggested. He also said the company had posted a good profit in 2014-15 and that Loksatta ramped up circulation, seeing a 25 percent jump in ad revenues. They had also invested in a new office building in Noida.

This was just seven years after Shekhar Gupta’s grim letter and around the time of his final exit as editor in chief in June 2014. He had already stepped down as CEO in 2013, reportedly emailing employees that his job on the corporate side – undertaken in unusual circumstances – was done. The “sense of imminent crisis” no longer existed with the company having reported “six stellar quarters” and heading for an “even better seventh”. 

Gupta said Viveck Goenka now had the “time to take over the management”. George Varghese was appointed CEO. There were also talks of changing flagship brand Indian Express’s tagline – “Journalism of Courage” – to a new one as part of a redesigning exercise. But it has remained intact. Gupta, meanwhile, went on to have a short stint at India Today and then launched his own news portal, the Print.

These profitability claims were also supported by the Hoot’s 2017 report which found that the group “managed a strong turnaround from losses of Rs 12.92 crore in 2013-14 to profits of Rs 60.6 crore in 2014-15”. Further, the group’s flagship company, The Indian Express Private Ltd, had seen a “steady improvement in the core business”. 

The report attributed this to factors such as the consistent rise in revenues (especially ad revenues), sharp uptake in operating profit from one percent to 15 percent in 2015-16 owing to falling newsprint prices, better cost control, and the conclusion of Majithia arrears payouts. Additionally, as it had also paid down its borrowings that cut interest cuts by 80 percent in the previous four years, and set off its accumulated losses of Rs 22.6 crore, giving it the ability to plough back a surplus of Rs 17.7 crore into its reserves.

During Gupta’s tenure, the Indian Express won the International Press Institute’s Award for Outstanding Journalism three times. It won the inaugural award in 2003 for its sustained coverage of the 2002 Gujarat riots, and then in 2006 for reportage on how crores meant for the 2005 Bihar flood victims were syphoned off by politicians and other officials , as well as reportage on the disappearance of tigers from India’s national parks. In 2009, Indian Express bagged the award for the third time for investigating links between Hindu extremists and the terror attacks in Malegaon (2006) and Modasa (2008).

Gupta too won several awards in this time including the Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed Memorial Award for National Integration in 2008 and the Padma Bhushan in 2009.

Other noteworthy changes around Gupta’s exit included the sale of the group’s landmark property, Express Towers, in July 2014. Quartz reported that Express Towers – “built by a spunky newspaper baron, who set out to build South Asia’s tallest tower in 1972, and succeeded” – was sold to the American private equity firm Blackstone and Pune-based Panchshil Realty for Rs 870 crore.

Prior to the sale, Express Towers was owned by Indian Express Newspapers (Mumbai) Ltd, the group’s realty arm, in which ICICI Ventures had 49 percent stake.  The group was to continue to hold a residual stake as it had offices and a printing press in the building, but in 2017, the group reportedly “bought 15,645 sq ft of space” in the adjacent Mafatlal Centre “for Rs 34 crore or Rs 21,732 a sq ft from Japanese company Mitsui & Co.” 

Business Standard had also reported sources as saying that media operations would be vacated from Express Tower, although a small office might be retained. It’s proven true. Today, the group’s registered office is Mafatlal Centre. Moreover, Viveck Goenka’s official address, as per ministry of corporate affairs documents, has also changed from the first floor of Express Towers to Shalimar Building in Bandra. Anant Goenka’s official address continues to be the penthouse in Express Towers. Viveck and his daughter Rachel also own a restaurant called Sassy Spoon on the ground floor of Express Towers.

In 2015, the Express group also sold its weekly film magazine Screen, which hosted the Screen Awards, to Star India.

Digital rise

Hoot’s 2017 report said the group remained “quite single-handedly focused on the print business, with over 90 percent of its revenues coming from either advertisements or subscriptions to its range of newspapers”. ICRA’s 2016 report noted that The Indian Express Private Ltd (TIEPL) had 32 national editions and three language dailies that reached five million readers across the country. 

The digital business picked up after Anant Goenka joined as whole-time director and head of new media. Forbes had reported that, as per Nasdaq-listed cross platform measurement company comScore, “when Anant joined the Express Group in 2012, the flagship brand’s website ranked number 15 in terms of news websites visited.” But by 2016, it had “jumped to number three, behind the Times of India and NDTV”. It boasted 42 million unique visitors each month, up sevenfold from 2012’s six million. The group also launched a mobile app.

Portfolio and places

TIEPL’s financial statement for FY2020 discloses that the company publishes its flagship English daily The Indian Express as well as Financial Express, Loksatta and Jansatta. As per data from the Registrar for Newspapers in India, Indian Express has registered publications from Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Delhi, Kolkata, Vadodara, Pune and Lucknow. The Nagpur edition publishes from Monday to Saturday.

The Sunday supplement Eye is published from Delhi, Pune, Howrah, Nagpur, Chandigarh and Mumbai. A weekly edition in Morena in Madhya Pradesh is registered under Chandra Prakash Shivhare. There’s also a biweekly edition called Indian Express Classified in Chandigarh.

Mumbai also has several monthly editions: Express Water, CRN, Express Pharma, Express Intelligent Enterprise, Express Channel Business and Express Computer. Express Hospitality is a fortnightly. As per its website, the pioneering Business Publication Division, launched in 1990, also included Express TravelWorld and Express Healthcare (possibly the same as Pharma).

Financial Express has daily editions from Howrah, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad; Monday to Saturday editions from Chandigarh, Pune and Lucknow; and weekly editions from Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Bengaluru North, Howrah, Pune and Lucknow, which have the Financial Express on Sunday. 

Sunday Express publishes from Jaipur, Lucknow, Delhi, Nagpur, Howrah, Pune, Vadodara, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. 

Loksatta has daily editions from Mumbai, Pune and Ahmednagar, and a Monday to Saturday edition from Nagpur. The weekly Ravivar Loksatta publishes from Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Pune and Mumbai. Mumbai also enjoys special issues like Loksatta Aarogyabhaan, Loksatta Arthabrahma, Loksatta Purnabramha, Loksatta Diwali and Loksatta Varsha Vedh. 

Jansatta has daily editions in Kolkata, Chandigarh, Lucknow, Raipur, and Delhi as well as an annual edition in Howrah.

Although neither the FY2020 financial statement nor the website mention them, RNI data shows National Standard registered under TIEPL with a daily edition in Bengaluru, a half-yearly one from Delhi and Mumbai, and the National Standard on Sunday from Bengaluru (North). Also Lok Prabha Diwali, which has an annual edition in Mumbai.

The Express Group also hosts a number of awards and events, the most prominent award being the Ramnath Goenka Excellence in Journalism Awards, instituted in 2006.

Ownership pattern

As of FY2022, Indian Express Holdings and Enterprises Private Ltd holds the majority shares (50.99 percent) in TIEPL. Forty percent are jointly held by Viveck Goenka and Anant Goenka. Shekhar Gupta, who’d unusually been given a stake over 15 years ago, continues to hold nine percent with his wife Neelam Jolly.


Single, nominee shares on behalf of Indian Express Holdings are held by Vaidehi Thakar, Poorvi Kamani, George Varghese, Monika Bansal, Vinayak Shete, Munnaram Prasad, Sandra Nazareth and Clarence Patrick Ferreira.

In turn, Indian Express Holdings and Enterprises Private Ltd is entirely owned by the father-son duo – 90.06 percent stake is held by Viveck Goenka jointly with Anant, 9.9 percent by Anant Goenka jointly with Viveck. Finally, the same nominee shareholders mentioned above, in addition to Neeta Fichardo and Bindu Kurryan, also hold single, nominee shares in IEHEPL on behalf of Viveck and Anant, amounting to 0.04 percent.

Moolah matters

Financial statements of TIEPL after 2020 were not available with the ministry of corporate affairs at the time of filing this story. But consolidated financial statements of Indian Express Holdings and Enterprises tell us that TIEPL incurred losses to the tune of Rs 2.73 crore in 2021 and Rs 1.1 crore in 2020, the Covid years. In FY 2019, it had booked a net profit of Rs 19.16 crore.

The other group companies’ performances during the same period were as follows. 

NEW School Ventures Limited, IEHE’s wholly owned subsidiary, incurred a loss of Rs 49,000 in 2021, a net profit of Rs 66,000 in 2020, and a loss of Rs 1.69 lakh in the year before.

Jansatta Publications Private Ltd, also wholly owned, made a profit of Rs 80,000 in 2021, loss of Rs 19,000 in 2020, and a loss of Rs 8,000 in 2019. 

IE Business Publications Private Ltd, where IEHE has a 51 percent holding, showed a profit of Rs 42,000 in both 2021 and 2020, and Rs 10,000 in 2019.

The Indian Express Print Media Ltd, wholly owned, incurred losses of Rs 43,000, Rs 4,000, and Rs 2.31 lakh in 2021, 2020 and 2019 respectively. 

Indian Express Television Private Ltd, in which it has 82.3 percent shareholding, made a profit of Rs 8,000 in 2021 and made losses to the tune of Rs 20,000 and Rs 9,000 in the two years prior. 

IE Media Private Limited, in which it has 83.2 percent holding, made a profit of Rs 8,000 in 2021, loss of Rs 20,000 in 2020, and of Rs 9,000 in 2019.

Global Fairs and Media Private Ltd, wholly owned, made a loss of Rs 51 lakh and Rs 1.37 crore in 2021 and 2020 respectively; its profits stood at Rs 4.52 lakh in 2019. 

IGEAR Holdings Private Ltd, also wholly owned, made losses of Rs 96 lakh and Rs 81 lakh in 2021 and 2020 respectively.

Finally, MIC Insurance Web Aggregator Private Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary, showed a loss of Rs 60.86 lakh in 2020.

IEHE’s associate companies include IE Online Media Services Private Ltd and Indian Express Commercial Ventures and Projects Private Ltd.

Among IEHE’s clutch of subsidiaries, Hoot’s report observed that the flagship Indian Express Private Ltd brought almost all the revenues. Only two others – Indian Express Online Media Pvt Ltd, the digital division, and NEWSchool Ventures, which used to run the now-shut Express Institute of Media Studies – had any material operations. “All other subsidiaries appear to be shell companies with no revenues to report,” it said. 

TIEPL’s last available statement, from 2020, also showed it owned shares with a market value of Rs 6.45 lakh in Bombay Dyeing & Mfg. Co. Ltd, shares worth Rs 7.96 lakh in Next MediaWorks Ltd (formerly Mid Day Multimedia Ltd), and shares worth Rs 29.72 lakh in Jagran Prakashan Ltd. It also owned some shares in PTI, UNI and Nepa Ltd (formerly The National Newsprint & Papers Mills Ltd).

Infographics by Gobindh VB.

All financial and ownership details are derived from financial statements and other company documents filed by the media house with the ministry of corporate affairs, the Bombay Stock Exchange, and the National Stock Exchange.

Citations

Book - India’s Newspaper Revolution: Capitalism, Politics and the Indian-Language Press (1977-99) by Robin Jeffery

Book - A great part of this story, until the part where the Express group splits, refers to BG Verghese’s fairly exhaustive biography of Goenka, Warrior of the Fourth Estate.

Emergency in India: How the Press Was Affected In 1975-77: https://www.timesnownews.com/india/article/emergency-in-india-how-the-press-was-affected-in-1975/246017

During the Emergency only three newspapers put up a semblance of resistance: https://www.indiatoday.in/magazine/nation/story/19770415-during-the-emergency-only-three-newspapers-put-up-a-semblance-of-resistance-818860-2015-04-22

Ramnath Goenka and Arun Shourie: The Devastating One-Two Punch of Indian Journalism: https://www.moneylife.in/article/ramnath-goenka-and-arun-shourie-the-devastating-one-two-punch-of-indian-journalism/67427.html

The Legacy of Ramnath Goenka: The Man Who Stood For Freedom: https://www.thequint.com/news/india/ramnath-goenka-profile-indian-express-emergency#read-more

https://www.britannica.com/biography/Ramnath-Goenka

Indian Express CEO Gupta delivers ‘grim news’ to staff:

https://www.livemint.com/Home-Page/NleVEkW4z2a7gcaUwasJVO/Indian-Express-CEO-Gupta-delivers-8216grim-news8217-to.html

'Achhe din’ for newspapers? https://www.livemint.com/Opinion/vcDYDNRi1uv3zpC1CgheWK/Achhe-din-for-newspapers.html

Shekhar Gupta to give up Express Group’s corporate leadership: 

https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/shekhar-gupta-to-give-up-express-groups-corporate-leadership/article5062337.ece

Express Group: on solid turf after a turnaround

http://asu.thehoot.org/media-watch/media-business/express-group-on-solid-turf-after-a-turnaround-9955

Ritu Sarin wins International Press Institute’s award for excellence in journalism https://indianexpress.com/article/india/ritu-sarin-wins-international-press-institutes-award-for-excellence-in-journalism-5053680/

Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed Memorial Award for National Integration http://pratibhapatil.nic.in/sp191008.html

Padma Bhushan for Shekhar Gupta; Padma Shri for Abhay Chhajlani, Alok Mehta

https://www.exchange4media.com/media-others-news/padma-bhushan-for-shekhar-guptapadma-shri-for-abhay-chhajlanialok-mehta-33765.html

Mumbai landmark Express Towers changes hands in Rs.870 crore deal https://qz.com/india/230328/mumbai-landmark-express-towers-changes-hands-in-rs870-crore-deal

Indian Express buys 15,000-sq ft office space in South Mumbai for Rs 34 cr https://www.business-standard.com/article/companies/indian-express-buys-15-000-sq-ft-office-space-in-south-mumbai-for-rs-34-cr-117022600698_1.html

Star acquires 'Screen', The Indian Express Group's film magazine

https://www.indiatoday.in/education-today/gk-and-current-affairs/story/star-acquires-screen-the-indian-express-groups-film-magazine-243649-2015-03-10

ICRA report 2016

Anant Goenka gives the Indian Express a digital remake

https://www.forbesindia.com/article/generation-next-of-india-inc./anant-goenka-gives-the-indian-express-a-digital-remake/42645/1

RNI

MCA documents

Also see

TV Newsance: Ramnath Roenka Awards 2022 are here to recognise the worst of TV journalism
TAGS
Who Owns Your Media?
Comments

Enter feedback / question / suggestion
lock
We take comments from subscribers only!  Subscribe now to post comments! 
Already a subscriber?  Login

Be the first one to comment

You may also like
Speeches, stellar journalism, and selfies with Anurag Thakur: It’s the Ramnath Goenka awards
Speeches, stellar journalism, and selfies with Anurag Thakur: It’s the Ramnath Goenka awards
Tanishka Sodhi
Named as main accused in bribery case, Karnataka BJP MLA gets media gag order
Named as main accused in bribery case, Karnataka BJP MLA gets media gag order
NL Team
More arrests, Rahul Gandhi coverage: Why press freedom continues to take a beating in India
More arrests, Rahul Gandhi coverage: Why press freedom continues to take a beating in India
Kalpana Sharma
About
About Us
NL Explained
Meet the team
Contact Us
Careers
Privacy Policy
Terms of Services
Subscription
Subscribe
Account Details
NL Legal Fund
Subscriber FAQ
Paywall Stories
Podcast Letters
Student Subscription
Noteworthy
न्यूज़लॉन्ड्री हिन्दी
Newsletters
NL Store
NL Recess
NL Interviews
The Media Rumble
Books
Follow
rss
apple podcast
telegram
linkedin
spotify
linkedin
Download the Newslaundry app
google play store button
app store button
© Newslaundry Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Monthly
Yearly
Select amount
₹200
₹1000
₹2400
Type an amount
Continue
2
Add contact details
3
Review & Pay

ALSO READ
RIGHTS
In 'Selective' Demolition, Muslim Structures Razed But Temple Spared in Gujarat's Dwarka
RIGHTS
MHA Decision Strips Six Prominent Disability, Human Rights NGOs of FCRA Licences
RIGHTS
Gujarat HC Sets Aside CIC's Order Asking GU to Provide Info on PM Modi's MA Degree
RIGHTS
Proposed Digital India Bill Shouldn't Give Govt Power to Block Online Content: Think Tank
MORE
ABOUT US
TERMS & CONDITIONS
PRIVACY POLICY
REFUND POLICY