
Englishहिंदीमराठीاردو
ABOUT US
SUPPORT USLOGIN
POLITICSECONOMYWORLDSECURITYLAWSCIENCESOCIETYCULTURE

COMMUNALISM
Violence, Arson Mark Ram Navami Processions Across States; Rally Held in Delhi Without Permission
In Maharashtra, West Bengal and Gujarat, incidents of stone pelting and arson were reported to have triggered communal tension around the Ram Navami celebrations. Both police and the public were injured.

Violence, Arson Mark Ram Navami Processions Across States; Rally Held in Delhi Without Permission
Video screengrabs from Howrah, Mathura district and Jahangirpuri in Delhi, during Ram Navami processions on March 30.

The Wire Staff
The Wire Staff
COMMUNALISMRIGHTS
13 HOURS AGO
New Delhi: After Delhi Police denied permission to hold a Ram Navami procession in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri area – which had witnessed communal violence last April – as many as 1,000 people clad in saffron walked with religious flags and raised slogans for about half a kilometre on March 30.

In Maharashtra, West Bengal and Gujarat, incidents of stone pelting and arson were reported to have triggered communal tension around the Ram Navami celebrations.

Both members of public and police personnel were said to have been injured in the incidents, leading police to make arrests in at least one case. 

Delhi

As per newspaper reports, the Deputy Commissioner Of Police (Northwest) had denied permission to a right wing outfit, Akhil  Bharatiya Hindu Yuva Morcha (ABHYM) for a Ram Navami event to be held at a local park. Other Hindutva groups like Bajrang Dal and Hindu Sena were to be present at the event. Police had denied permission to hold Friday Ramzan prayers at the park too, citing law and order issues in the communally charged area. 

However, violating the prohibitory orders, men in saffron and yellow took out a procession from the park in the K block area of Jahangirpuri to its B block, before police eventually put a stop to it.

“Senior police officers said they asked the men to celebrate at the park but they demanded to walk 4-5 km in the area with flags,” reported The Indian Express. The report quoted DCP Jitendra Meena as having said, “We couldn’t allow them to do so. They were allowed to walk on a 100-metre stretch, which they did. As of now, we have not arrested anyone or lodged a case.”

He also said, “There was no violence. It was a peaceful celebration for both communities,” adding, “Keeping in mind law and order situation, the order against Ramzan prayers still stands. If they do show up, we will make security arrangements accordingly. However, nobody has pushed for the prayers.” 

The news report said the men in saffron and yellow, prior to taking out the procession, gathered at the park to protest against the police order, placed idols at the park and carried out a puja after setting up a stage there. “Organsiers also set up loudspeakers and a makeshift temple.”

VIDEO | "An organisation sought permission for a 4-5 km long Shobha Yatra (in Delhi's Jahangirpuri on Ram Navami), which was denied. Later, they accepted the permission to restrict the procession within 100 metres," says Jitendra Kumar Meena, DCP NW District, Delhi Police. pic.twitter.com/43ooOA8ho8

— Press Trust of India (@PTI_News) March 30, 2023

After the puja, the organisers took out a rally in which participants raised slogans of ‘Jai Shri Ram’, ‘Jai Siya Ram’, ‘Hanuman Ki Jai’ and ‘Dilli Police sharam karo (Delhi Police have shame).’ ABHYM president Shivom Mishra told the newspaper, “Why do we need permission from police? It is a free country”.

The organisers said that they had planned a gathering of 7000 people for the occasion but expressed disappointment that only 3,000 could come “due to the heavy barricading”.

Maulana Abdul Kalam, a senior clergy at the Jahangirpuri mosque said, “We also wish to hold prayers (at the park) but they (police) didn’t allow us. Rules are only for minorities.”

Aurangabad

Meanwhile, two incidents of Ram Navami-related violence were reported from Maharashtra. As per a report in The Hindu, “A riot-like situation prevailed in Sambhajinagar city (formerly Aurangabad) of Maharashtra in the wee hours of March 30 following clashes between two groups, with a number of police vehicles torched during the incident.”

The report said the incident took place at Kiradpura locality of the city on the occasion of Ram Navami and ahead of the opposition Maha Vikas Agadhi’s rally on April 2. 

“According to police, the clashes between the groups happened between 12.20 am and 1 am on March 30 when a group of bikers, passing through the Kiradpura area, raised slogans that reportedly provoked the other group. Heated arguments soon snowballed into full-blown violence, with stone pelting and vandalism in tow,” said the news report. 

As per police, the arson continued for about three hours. As many as 15 vehicles, including private owned ones, were set on fire. Police thereafter resorted to baton charging and tear gas to bring the situation under control.

Since the opposition rally was set for April 2, there ensued a war of words between the opposition Shiv Sena, Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party and the ruling Eknath Shinde-led Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The opposition has accused the ruling BJP and Shinde faction of Shiv Sena to have fomented communal tensions to get their rally cancelled.

Calling the Aurangabad clash a failure of the Shinde-Devendra Fadnavis government, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut told media, “This government has only one intention, that is to create disturbance in the state and to ensure that riots take place, adding, “that Fadnavis’ home ministry appeared “invisible” all throughout the incident.

Jalgaon

Elsewhere in Maharashtra, pre-Ram Navami related violence was reported from Jalgaon. News reports said a clash ensued between two groups after a religious procession accompanied by loud music was taken out in front of a mosque in Paldhi area of Jalgaon. “The police have registered two FIRs and arrested 45 people so far for the violence that broke out on March 28,” said The Hindustan Times. The report quoted Jalgaon superintendent of police M. Rajkumar as having said that four persons were injured in the violence. He called the present situation peaceful and “under control”. 

Mathura

In Mathura, on Thursday, a viral video of men waving saffron flags from roofs near the Jama Masjid during a Ram Navami procession led to communal tension, reported Indian Express.

The procession was stopped for 30 minutes and concluded amidst police presence.

Mathura SSP Shailesh Pandey said that police are in the process of verifying details and that the situation is peaceful.

Hindu extremists with Bhagwa flag climbed the wall of the mosque outside Jama Masjid in Mathura as part of Ram Navami celebrations. pic.twitter.com/pvLTbShSVT

— Ahmed Khabeer احمد خبیر (@AhmedKhabeer_) March 30, 2023

Howrah

Meanwhile, a Ram Navami-related incident of violence was reported from West Bengal’s Howrah area. As per a Times of India report, several vehicles were set on fire after two groups clashed in Howrah amid the celebrations. As per the state chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the Ram Navami procession organisers took a route which was not authorised by the police, leading her to state, “They have been hiring goons from outside the state to orchestrate communal riots. Nobody has stopped their processions but they do not have the right to march with swords and bulldozers. How did they get the audacity to do this in Howrah?” 

Issuing orders to police to take strict action against the perpetrators of the clash, she told media, “Those who have not done any wrong will not be arrested.” Meanwhile, the BJP has accused Banerjee of the violence.

State BJP leaders and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh members took out processions on Ram Navami in different parts of the state. The Times of India report said it counted to “about 1,000 small and large rallies across the state.”

“Drumbeats, saffron flags and large cutouts of Lord Ram featured prominently in these processions. Some of those participating in the procession were allegedly carrying swords and trishuls,” the report said.

Vadodara

An incident of stone pelting during the Ram Navami celebrations was reported from Gujarat’s Vadodara city too. “While some vehicles got damaged, no one was injured in the incident and the procession passed along its planned route under police protection,” deputy commissioner of police Yashpal Jaganiya told the Times of India. 

1
Support The WireNewslaundry

     
SUBSCRIBE

Video
Report
Podcast
Subscriber Only
Analysis
FoE Con 2023NEW
हिन्दी
Subscribe
Sena
More
MEGHALAYA, NAGALAND AND TRIPURA 2023
New faces, old issues, and NDPP-BJP’s edge: All you need to know about Nagaland’s assembly poll
Twelve parties, 60 seats, and a crowded field of candidates for the February 27 election.
ByNona Arhe21 Feb, 2023   bookmark_add
New faces, old issues, and NDPP-BJP’s edge: All you need to know about Nagaland’s assembly poll
Gobindh VB
whatsapp
copy
A few kilometres outside Kohima town, at the new ISBT station, a group of men were deeply engaged in conversation. Hailing from neighbouring villages in the Eastern Nagaland region, they worked as daily wagers in Kohima and planned to return to their respective villages to vote in the upcoming assembly election on February 27.

Their chief concern was their mode of travel. Would it be cheaper to hire a taxi and pack in as many people as possible, or take a bus from Dimapur? From Dimapur, it takes 15 hours to reach the district headquarters at Tuensang, and then two or three hours to reach the villages. 

But Nagaland, like other Indian states, practises a patronage-based kind of democracy in which financial and other benefits, including weeks of feasting activities, serve as the basis for political ability. One candidate had promised to provide the men with free travel and spending money to get there. It’s a good bargain for daily wagers who rely on fixed incomes and, in exchange for free travel, they planned to endorse the politician. 

The men also chatted about how they’re no longer bothered about politicians and political parties, because they have no expectations. “It doesn’t make any difference who we vote for,” said Khunyi, 33, from Noklak district. Whoever wins will join the ruling government and we will not get to see them for the next five years.”

The 2023 Nagaland legislative assembly election is unlike any other that the state has witnessed in its 60 years of statehood, making history on many counts. In the fray for 60 seats are 183 candidates, including four women. 

Twelve parties are in the fray. The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party has fielded 40 candidates while the BJP, its alliance partner, has fielded 20. There are 23 candidates from the Congress, 23 from the Naga People’s Front, 12 from the Nationalist Congress Party, 11 from the National People’s Party, 15 from the Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas), seven from the Janata Dal (United), three from the Rashtriya Janata Dal, eight from the Republican Party of India (Athawale), and 19 independent candidates.

The fledgling Rising People’s Party, that looked like a formidable force a year ago, has fielded only one candidate, with the party’s operations slowing as the election approached. According to an anonymous party member, the rationale for not fielding more candidates is that “Nagas are not yet ready for the cause we are fighting for, but we are here for the long haul”.

The ‘opposition-less’ scenario

The major regional political parties that have dominated Nagaland politics at various stages all have a history of merging with larger parties at some point. However, the previous term saw something never seen before in the state’s history. In April 2020, the state’s only opposition party, the Naga People’s Front, merged with the governing Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party, essentially ending all opposition. 

As a result, some sincere voters are disappointed and confused this time around. 

Dr Shurhozelie Liezietsu, former chief minister and president of the NPF, clarified: “We have made it absolutely clear that the only reason our party supported the formation of the opposition-less government was to work together to find a peaceful and amicable solution to the Naga political crisis.”

subscription-appeal-image
Support Independent Media
The media must be free and fair, uninfluenced by corporate or state interests. That's why you, the public, need to pay to keep news free.


Subscribe Now
Shurhozelie Liezietsu, former chief minister and president of the NPF.
Shurhozelie Liezietsu, former chief minister and president of the NPF.

Liezietsu, who has witnessed every assembly election in the state so far, added that the current assembly election leaves him sad and disappointed, because Naga electorates are “losing their uniqueness” and “forgetting why we fight elections”. Instead, he said, this election has been reduced to a “game of money”.

“Money plays a role in elections,” he said, “but never on this scale.”

The veteran Naga politician admitted that his party could have been in a better position but the short timeframe prevented them from reorganising. He also criticised the alliance between the BJP and NDPP. 

“They have the money power, unlike us, and they are using it to woo voters,” he said. “BJP Nagaland is just a fleeting party. Once the BJP in Delhi wanes, the BJP in Nagaland will naturally disintegrate.”

The BJP alliance’s strength

The most formidable candidate this election is Neiphiu Rio, the leader of the NDPP and current chief minister of Nagaland who’s already served four terms. Campaigning relentlessly and imploring voters to back his alliance, he’s clearly taking no chances in his crusade to become chief minister for the fifth time. Rio has emphasised that a solution to the Naga political issue will be his government’s top priority.

This is echoed in the NDPP-BJP alliance’s theme song for the election, which contains these lyrics: “There’s a new song in the air/ A song of peace and harmony/ Not by words but by deeds/ Sabka saath, sabka vikas.”

For a non Hindi-speaking state, adding the BJP’s national slogan to the song is a subtle way to penetrate the Naga’s social psyche. It’s clever too, since Nagas love to sing, and what better way than having youngsters hum along to their tunes? The song, however, quickly sparked controversy. Local vloggers took offence to their footage being used in the song’s video without their consent. The BJP wasted no time in taking it down from YouTube. 

Nagaland chief minister and NDPP leader Neiphiu Rio.
Nagaland chief minister and NDPP leader Neiphiu Rio.

Yet one thing is sure – Nagas have wholeheartedly embraced the BJP, dispelling any earlier fears that a Christian state will reject a Hindu nationalist party that is also anti-minority. This is clear from how the NDPP and BJP tickets were the party tickets that were most in demand. They are also the only alliance partners fighting on all 60 seats.

In Kohima, the BJP’s newly inaugurated office bustled with activity. Everything was neat and orderly, unlike other party offices in the state. 

Sitting comfortably in his private room, state general secretary Eduzu Theluo said, “Nagas have understood that the BJP is a political party and not a religious party. That is why Nagas are embracing the BJP government. The amount of developmental work that has taken place in the last few years under the Modi government is another reason why there is growing support for the party.”

While the BJP has quickly penetrated Naga society, there are pockets where it’s viewed with suspicion. One of these pockets is Kohima – out of six seats here, the party has fielded only one candidate.

Whither the Congress?

The once impenetrable Congress of the 1980s and ’90s is today most susceptible, so much so that even party tickets generated little interest. However, state president K Therie was defiant.

“What makes the BJP-NDPP alliance think they can come up with a resolution in another five years if they haven’t done so in the last 20?” he said. “This election will have a fractured mandate and the Congress has a decent chance of reclaiming control. So, if not Neiphiu Rio, the BJP in Nagaland lacks an acceptable chief ministerial face.” Therie is the front-runner for the position of chief minister in the Congress.

In such a scenario, Therie said, the Congress is the “only option and we will work with all regional parties. Because of the BJP’s anti-Christian stance, Congress has a great chance of garnering mercy votes from Christian voters this time.”

Politicising the Naga political issue

Nagaland’s intellectual community believes different political parties have used the Indo-Naga issue as campaign rhetoric to further their political objectives. It’s a sensitive and contentious subject in Nagaland, making it a powerful tool in the hands of politicians, especially during elections to garner votes. 

But in reality, the issue picks up steam around election campaigns to maintain the status quo – to protect their chair and channel public funds. Candidates place little emphasis on the state’s other deep-rooted problems, choosing instead to focus on the Naga political rhetoric. They also employ it as a diversionary strategy from the issues voters are dealing with, such as unemployment, water supply, public transport, road, electricity, healthcare and education.

This political gimmick makes a mockery of the protracted Naga issue and nurtures a political economy ruled by an oligarchy. It’s been seen in the past and is being repeated through this campaign season, as evidenced by party manifestos and candidate speeches.

New faces 

The emergence of concerned citizens running for election is a distinction noticed this election. Among the new breed of politicians is Kahuto Chishi Sumi, a political activist and Gaonbura. As a newcomer, Chishi quickly became Nagaland’s most intriguing new political figure in a matter of weeks. YouTubers and news outlets have been paying close attention to his views on fighting corruption and other hot-button topics like tribalism and churches. 

“I am contesting for different reasons unlike the other politicians today,” he told this writer. “I am running for a larger platform to raise awareness about the evils consuming our society. The rest of India has a superficial idea of Nagaland’s level of corruption. Christianity has been reduced to prohibition and the shutdown of shops on Sundays.”

Kahuto Chishi Sumi, a political activist and Gaonbura.
Kahuto Chishi Sumi, a political activist and Gaonbura.

Chishi has made some particularly outspoken and controversial remarks. For instance, he encouraged voters to “take cash” from politicians while casting their ballots for whoever they want – this at a time when the highest church body in Nagaland, the Nagaland Baptist Church council, is running a “clean election campaign” asking voters not to sell their votes. Younger generations, mainly those on social media, have taken notice of his campaign because of his fearless and bold demeanour, his embrace of truth and justice cutting across tribe lines, and his visceral contempt for seasoned politicians.

There are also a significant number of young candidates in the race. The two youngest candidates – Thomas Konyak from Tizit town and T Atsuba from Pungro-Kiphire – are both 26 years old and represent the Congress party. Naga culture seldom trusts young people with important matters because it is believed that knowledge and experience grow with age. So, the acceptance and support these young candidates have received from their communities and constituencies represent a significant shift in attitude by the older generations.

Among the younger candidates is Mashenlo Kath, a 33-year-old contesting for the Congress. Contesting from Kohima town, his entry here is also the first of its kind as a member of the Rengma tribe, considered an outside tribe in Kohima which comes under the Angami tribe’s constituency. In a state where tribalism is pervasive, it’s almost unheard of for another tribe to contest from outside its designated district, except for Dimapur, the commercial hub of Nagaland, where each tribe has its own dominated colonies.

Overall, most voters are still unsure what to expect in this election. Will the state enter another opposition-less government or will a surprise post-poll alliance modify the NDPP-BJP’s predetermined victory? Will Nagaland get its first female legislator? And will this election result in a consequential shift in Naga politics?

We’ll find out on March 2.

Also see

Nagaland-Assam Border Dispute: Past Perspective

Chorus from Tripura: ‘Never saw these many indigenous women candidates’
NL Digest
A weekly guide to the best of our stories from our editors and reporters. Note: Skip if you're a subscriber. All subscribers get a weekly, subscriber-only newsletter by default.

Type your email
SIGN UP
TAGS
Nagaland
Comments

Enter feedback / question / suggestion
lock
We take comments from subscribers only!  Subscribe now to post comments! 
Already a subscriber?  Login

Be the first one to comment

You may also like
Hindu nationalism and local sub-nationalisms: Northeast poll results show rise of two poles  
Hindu nationalism and local sub-nationalisms: Northeast poll results show rise of two poles
Samrat X
60 years, no women MLAs: Nagaland’s four women candidates carry the hopes of generations
60 years, no women MLAs: Nagaland’s four women candidates carry the hopes of generations
Nona Arhe
‘Desire for growth, undermining of social cohesion’: What editorials said on BJP’s rise in Northeast
‘Desire for growth, undermining of social cohesion’: What editorials said on BJP’s rise in Northeast
NL Team
About
About Us
NL Explained
Meet the team
Contact Us
Careers
Privacy Policy
Terms of Services
Subscription
Subscribe
Account Details
NL Legal Fund
Subscriber FAQ
Paywall Stories
Podcast Letters
Student Subscription
Noteworthy
न्यूज़लॉन्ड्री हिन्दी
Newsletters
NL Store
NL Recess
NL Interviews
The Media Rumble
Books
Follow
rss
apple podcast
telegram
linkedin
spotify
linkedin
Download the Newslaundry app
google play store button
app store button
© Newslaundry Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.
₹2400 once
The founding premise of The Wire is this: if good journalism is to survive and thrive, it can only do so by being both editorially and financially independent.This means relying principally on contributions from readers and concerned citizens who have no interest other than to sustain a space for quality journalism. For any query or help write to us at support@thewire.in
I would like to contribute
Once
Monthly
Yearly
Select amount
₹200
₹1000
₹2400
Type an amount
Continue
2
Add contact details
3
Review & Pay

ALSO READ
COMMUNALISM
In 'Selective' Demolition, Muslim Structures Razed But Temple Spared in Gujarat's Dwarka
COMMUNALISM
Karnataka: Muslims Excluded But Jains, Christians Eligible for Backward Classes Quota
COMMUNALISM
Jairam Ramesh Points Finger at Modi as Bill To Amend Forest Act Not Sent To Standing Committee
COMMUNALISM
'When Politics and Religion Are Segregated, This'll Stop': 8 Quotes From SC's Words on Hate Speech
MORE
ABOUT US
TERMS & CONDITIONS
PRIVACY POLICY
REFUND POLICY