
Englishहिंदीमराठीاردو
ABOUT US
SUPPORT USLOGIN
POLITICSECONOMYWORLDSECURITYLAWSCIENCESOCIETYCULTURE

BOOKS
Book Review: How Urban Slums Shape City Politics
The book ‘Migrants and Machine Politics’ provokes an interesting discussion on slums. How is political authority crafted within the growing cities? How, if at all, do urban residents have a say in who leads their local community?

Book Review: How Urban Slums Shape City Politics
Representative image. Photo: PTI/Atul Yadav

Tikender Panwar
Tikender Panwar
BOOKSPOLITICS
14 HOURS AGO
The distributive politics of urban slums is a dynamic process, where a bottom-up mobilisation seeks to gain material benefits. This goes against the conventional understanding of Indian slums, that “these neighbourhoods are often understood to be governed by ruthless gangs, or rendered the playthings of politicians, who dangle handouts during elections to amass support from desperate residents.”

Against this understanding, the book titled Migrants and Machine Politics: How India’s Urban Poor Seek Representation and Responsiveness authored by Adam Michael Auerbach and Tariq Thachil formulates: “Against these narratives, we find slums communities engaging in sustained, bottom-up claim making to improve local conditions. They actively select their informal leaders through deliberate meetings, informal elections, and day-to-day decisions over whom to follow and whose door to knock on to ask for help.”

This book is the culmination of eight years of research in the slums of two cities, Jaipur and Bhopal.


Adam Michael Auerbach and Tariq Thachil
Migrants and Machine Politics: How India’s Urban Poor Seek Representation and Responsiveness
Princeton University Press (January 2023)

Before I proceed with the review, a caveat. Words used to describe people in the slums and their connections with the political parties and leaders is alien to the vocabulary that we normally find being used in India.

Take for example, client, broker, and patron are words used for a slum dweller, slum representative/leader, and political leader (ward councillor or higher up), respectively. Likewise, machine politics is the politics of slums, which sounds like a mechanical process built into the governance structure. For the sake of convenience, I will use the same words though I do not subscribe to this vocabulary.

Phenomenal exercise

This book is a phenomenal exercise based on research on primary data collected from these two cities. A total of 110 slums were surveyed; 663 party workers (brokers), who held distinct positions within a committee at one of the party organisational levels, were interviewed; 343 party patrons; and over 4,000 respondents/slum residents. The survey and research work was conducted from 2012 to 2020.

The book provokes an interesting discussion on slums. How is political authority crafted within the growing cities? How, if at all, do urban residents have a say in who leads their local community? Once local leaders have taken on this role, how do they decide whom to help in the neighbourhoods where resources are limited? What guides the flow of resources? What are the relations between the brokers and the patrons?

Let us try to explore some of these questions as generated through the research data.

How does the political authority of an individual emerge in a slum? Is it rooted in ethnicity, caste, region or something else? There is interesting data which reveals that the slum dwellers chose their first priority on the basis of the education of the leader and someone who can represent them and connect them to the bureaucracy. The findings exhibit that residents in slums will not simply assemble behind members of their own ethnic group, as is commonly assumed. Residents greatly value brokers whom they see as well-positioned to effectively solve their everyday problems.

Five key features emerge from the research work as laid out in the book. There is persistent underdevelopment in the slums that leads to low-income voters making claims; sending resident requests to local brokers rather than high-level politicians; prioritising effective problem solvers over solely ethnic considerations by residents; brokers privilege building inclusive reputations over monitoring and punishing voters; and the pervasive political competition across and within party organisational networks.

Also read: Book Review: Working Lives in the Shadows of the Global City

What does this mean?

First, based on the research, local brokerage network formation is crucial for bottom-up demands in the slums. These demands primarily concern the physical infrastructure, sewage management, paving of roads, etc. This sort of citizen agency is critically important to meet the persistent conditions of underdevelopment in the slums.

Second, the requests or demands compel the residents to seek assistance from local political actors, who then relay these demands to higher-level elites, mainly bureaucrats and politicians. This is an another interesting feature of this study. “Such mediated access to political elites is a key organisational feature of machine politics.” Instead of elite politicians, the citizens seek assistance from politically connected leaders. Only 1.5% of the residents said that they would approach MPs for assistance and just 8.3% would approach the MLAs, according to another study (APU-Lokniti), mentioned in the book.

Third, and this one is quite a revelation. The slum residents prioritise effective problem-solvers when seeking assistance, and they do not ‘reflexively’ support members of their own castes. “Education was in the top two responses in both the surveys (Jaipur and Bhopal), while shared ethnicity was not.”

Four, brokers privilege building inclusive reputations over monitoring and punishing voters. An interesting manifestation is the how brokers display indifference to ethnicity, in cultivating multi-ethnic clientele. One of the plausible reasons for this could be the tremendous social diversity observed in Indian slums.

Five, the book highlights how these processes of selection are ‘undergirded’ by considerable political competition at every level of machine politics. Voters often change which party they support. Brokers are willing to flip parties. Patrons are in search of upward mobility and even party elites switching partisan allegiances.

No wonder that a 2019 election survey of national elections found that over 60% of respondents did not report feeling close to any single party.

The major upshot of the study is that the urban poor are thus architects of the political networks that connect them to the state. Politicians have little choice but to engage with slum leaders chosen by residents. And, during the allocation of party positions, they need to prioritise those slum leaders with attributes that will ensure their continued popularity among residents.

The most important attribute is the one that boosts efficacy in problem-solving, i.e., a slum leader’s education.

Is that so simple? 

I find the authors think of ‘slums’ as an ecosystem fully contained within themselves, with little connection with the outside world. But that is not true. The belief that slum residents are the driving force in today’s world of distributive politics would be naïve. The book does not explore the various aspects of the new form of urbanisation taking place since the 1990s. Though there are references to informality, how this informality links to peoples’ lives is hardly ventured into.

Further, the binary between slums and the patron elite is not as unambiguous as it appears to be. It is quite blurred. Take for example, a slum leader who becomes the mayor of the city! Likewise, the role of organised movements or unions is not taken into consideration, even if this is not always visible. Does it create any new architecture or is it meaningless for slum residents?

Threat of majoritarian politics in Indian cities 

However, the epilogue in the book very correctly points out the transition of local politics into a centralising democracy. With the advent of Hindutva politics, the sheer diversity prevalent in slums is also getting marginalised. It rightly points out that “a constant drum beat of Hindutva politics might fundamentally alter realities of ethnic diversity in slums. It may become increasingly difficult for slum leaders and politicians to credibly commit to assisting those of a different faith. …..India’s cities already face systematic marginalisation in the distribution of public services. The breakdown of multi-religious segregation in political networks corrodes a buffer against communal conflict.”

For the Indian cities what is being witnessed is a) greater political and fiscal centralisation and b) unleashed Hindu majoritarianism and growing intolerance of dissent against the Modi government.

Contentious politics is being altered, which is a bedrock for distributive politics!

Tikender Singh Panwar was once directly elected deputy mayor of Shimla. He was linked with the Leh Vision document and has written vision documents for a dozen cities. Author of two books, he is an urban specialist working in the design of inclusive cities.

1
Support The Wire
₹2400 once
The founding premise of The Wire is this: if good journalism is to survive and thrive, it can only do so by being both editorially and financially independent.This means relying principally on contributions from readers and concerned citizens who have no interest other than to sustain a space for quality journalism. For any query or help write to us at support@thewire.in
I would like to contrNewslaundry

     
SUBSCRIBE

Video
Report
Podcast
Subscriber Only
Analysis
FoE Con 2023NEW
हिन्दी
Subscribe
Sena
More
REPORT
India blocked 55,607 websites in seven years. Here’s everything you need to know
A report by SFLC.in explains what was blocked and why, the legality of these orders, and why the public has a right to information.
ByAditi Agrawal17 Jan, 2023   bookmark_add
India blocked 55,607 websites in seven years. Here’s everything you need to know
Shambhavi Thakur
whatsapp
copy
India blocked 55,607 URLs between January 2015 and September 2022, according to a January 12 report by the Software Freedom Law Centre, India. Of these, 26,474 URLs, or 47.6 percent, were blocked under section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 46.8 percent for copyright infringement, and the remaining on charges including obscenity, pornography, and material related to child sexual abuse.

subscription-appeal-image
Support Independent Media
The media must be free and fair, uninfluenced by corporate or state interests. That's why you, the public, need to pay to keep news free.


Subscribe Now
Courtesy: SFLC.in
Courtesy: SFLC.in

Why were these URLs blocked?

1. The blockings under section 69A were in the interest of India’s sovereignty and integrity, defence, security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, public order, and to prevent cognisable offences relating to these grounds. 

The ministry of electronics and information technology blocked 26,379 URLs, while the ministry of information and broadcasting blocked 94 (mainly YouTube channels) via the IT Rules. 

The I&B ministry’s reasons were more specific, such as spreading disinformation and propaganda, links to organisations banned under the UAPA with potential to incite “communal disharmony”, and propaganda undermining the democratic process in upcoming elections. It also blocked URLS for disseminating fake news related to the Indian army, Jammu and Kashmir, and the 2021 death of General Bipin Rawat.

2. With respect to the 26,024 URLS blocked for copyright infringement, most orders came from courts. Single court orders can lead to large-scale blocking in cases where URLs are often mirrors of each other and engage in large-scale copyright infringement. These orders can be issued under India’s Copyright Act, 1957 or fall within the purview of the United State’s Digital Millennium Copyright Act.  

Blocking under the US law happens because most intermediaries – like Google, Meta (which owns Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp) and Twitter – are headquartered in the US. India has been a signatory to the Berne Convention since 1928 and, in 2018, acceded to the World Intellectual Property’s Organisation’s Copyright Treaty. 

SFLC.in said “rampant blocking” happens in India under the DMCA, so the number of blocks for copyright infringement might not be a true representation of the impact of such blocking.

3. A total of 1,065 URLs were blocked for obscenity, child sexual abuse material and pornography. The IT ministry blocked 857 of these after an order by the Uttarakhand High Court in 2018, while 238 were blocked by the additional chief metropolitan magistrate of Mumbai in 2016.

4. Other reasons include defamation, public disorder, law and order, and contempt of court.



Courtesy: SFLC.in
Courtesy: SFLC.in

What techniques are used to block content?

Techniques for blocking websites in India include DNS tampering, HTTP Blocking, TCP/IP Blocking, TLS-SNI Blocking, and QUIC Network Blocking.

Under what law can the government block content? 

There are four main pieces of legislation that allow the Indian government to block content online.

1. The IT ministry can block content via section 69A of the Blocking Rules, 2009 under the IT Act. These orders are meant to remain confidential under rule 16.

2. The I&B ministry can block content through part III of the IT Rules, 2021. These orders are not confidential in nature. There is some ambiguity as to whether the I&B ministry actually has the power to issue blocking orders at present, partly because of stays imposed on certain sections of the IT Rules by the Bombay and Madras High Courts.

Under the Blocking Rules and the IT Rules, content can be blocked in the interest of India’s sovereignty and integrity, defence, security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states, public order, and to prevent incitement of commission of any cognisable offence relating to these grounds.

They also permit the respective ministries to issue emergency blocking orders.

3. Section 79 of the IT Act, under which the IT Rules were notified, allows the government to issue notices to take down violative content. When such an order comes from a judicial body or competent government authority, it has to be obeyed under the Shreya Singhal judgement, but not otherwise.

4. The Copyright Act, 1957 and the US’s Digital Millennium Copyright Act, 1998 are used to block content that violates intellectual property rights.

What are the main problems with section 69A of the Blocking Rules?

Over 47 percent of blocking orders were issued under section 69A but given the confidentiality clause under rule 16, the process is opaque. The aggrieved person is not allowed to challenge the blocking order. SFLC pointed out that such a blanket confidentiality clause is ultra vires in nature as it goes beyond the mandate of section 69A as it was interpreted by the Supreme Court in the Shreya Singhal judgement. 

It also lacks checks and balances, since the review committee formed under section 69A consists only of members from the executive, or central government. Additionally, an RTI response from August 2022 reveals that since the Blocking Rules were passed in 2009, the review committee has not unblocked a single piece of content, implying that blocks are forever with no scope for correction.

But didn’t the Supreme Court uphold section 69A?

Yes, it did. It said section 69A, unlike 66A which was struck down, has “several safeguards” like only allowing the central government to pass such blocking orders, that the necessity of such orders is determined by some reasons laid out in article 19(2) of the Constitution, and getting reasons in writing so they can be challenged via writ petition under article 226 of the Constitution.

But, as SFLC.in noted, the confidentiality clause renders two of these safeguards redundant. The fact that only four writ petitions – including this one by Twitter – have been filed thus far is a testament to the limitations of these safeguards. 

Can’t all intermediaries just say no, like Twitter did, and go to court?

It’s not that easy. Intermediaries are required under law to block a website if directed to do so by a court or the government. Otherwise, they may lose their “safe harbour” – protection from liability for third-party content on their platforms. If an intermediary does not obey a Section 69A blocking order, its officials may face imprisonment of up to seven years along with a fine. 

On the other hand, if intermediaries, including TSPs such as Airtel and Jio, block websites without orders, they could be held guilty of violating section 43 of the IT Act which says that causing disruption or denial of access to any person authorised to access any computer network amounts to an offence and attracts liability in terms of penalty and compensation.

Why SFLC.in’s data might be incomplete

SLFC.in noted that the number of URLs blocked is not an exact number, since the government of India usually denies information about blocking online content citing rule 16, the confidentiality clause of section 69A of the Blocking Rules of the IT Act.

There’s a discrepancy in numbers even in answers given by the respective ministries in Parliament. For example, in March 2020, the IT ministry told the Lok Sabha that 3,635 URLs were blocked in 2019. Six months later, that number changed to 3,655.

Similarly, in 2018, the IT ministry informed the Lok Sabha that 1,329 URLs were blocked in 2017.  In 2019, it said 1,385 URLs had been blocked in 2017. Even more confusingly, the same ministry said in December 2018 that it had blocked 2,388 URLs that year until December 31 – even though the answer was given on December 12.

And this data does not demonstrate the extent of the internet that is blocked by the government. For instance, blocking the domain www.twitter.com means blocking access to almost 250 million accounts with all their tweets, likes and media content. Blocking www.twitter.com/newslaundry would block all tweets posted and retweeted by Newslaundry over the years. Blocking access to one particular tweet would block only that single URL while potentially retaining replies to that tweet. 

Despite the massive difference in the scale of blocking in each of these three instances, the IT ministry would count each instance as only one URL.

The passing of the IT Rules 2021 – under which the I&B ministry can also issue blocking orders to publishers – made all this even more confusing. The I&B ministry releases details and reach of YouTube channels that it’s blocked but when this data is provided in Parliament, it’s given by the IT ministry – and it’s not clear whether this data includes the I&B ministry’s blocking orders. Newslaundry has had multiple conversations with officials from both ministries but there was no clarity on this.

Limitations of the RTI Act

Through RTI requests, SFLC.in obtained information about the number of websites blocked and the number of meetings held by the section 69A review committee in 2021. 

The department of telecommunications provided a list of websites blocked through court orders while the I&B ministry directed SFLC.in to a website where blocking information is put up. The IT ministry did not give information on review committee meetings beyond the number of meetings held in 2021 citing Section 8 of the RTI Act and Rule 16 of the Blocking Rules. 

SFLC.in had also asked for copies of blocking orders and whether websites blocked included the VLC player website, but this information was denied by the IT ministry under rule 16 of the Blocking Rules and section 8 of the RTI Act.

What does SFLC.in recommend?

1. A blocking order must be sent to the originator of the content to give them a fair hearing. The originator must be allowed to access the complaint that led to the passage of the blocking order.

2. Blocking orders must be made public. This is a necessary safeguard as interpreted by the Supreme Court in the Shreya Singhal judgement.

3. The RTI Act through section 22 should override the confidentiality clause prescribed in rule 16 of the Blocking Rules. That way, orders will be available through RTI requests.

4. The blocking order should be published on the corresponding website so visitors to the website, whose right to information is violated by blocking access to content, have an “effective opportunity” to challenge the order.

5. The review committee, which only has members from the executive, must include a judicial member and an independent member for purposes of transparency, accountability and oversight. Or a different organ of the state, that includes some form of judicial oversight, should be responsible for reviewing blocking orders.

6. Instead of blocking entire websites, only the offensive URLs on the website should be blocked. For this, a standard format should be introduced for the designated authority and review committee to follow.

7. Finally, the review committee must consider whether blocking is a proportionate and necessary response, and the impact that a denial of information will have on the public.

Update at 2 pm, Jan 18: The report by SFLC.in had errors that were reproduced in this story. The total URLs blocked is 55,607, not 55,580. 26,474 URLs were blocked under section 69A, not 26,447 URLs, of which the IT ministry blocked 26,379, not 26,352. This has been corrected in the story, as well as in the headline.

Also see

India has blocked 78 YouTube news channels, 560 URLs since 2021: I&B minister

How does the Indian government ‘block’ online content?
NL Digest
A weekly guide to the best of our stories from our editors and reporters. Note: Skip if you're a subscriber. All subscribers get a weekly, subscriber-only newsletter by default.

Type your email
SIGN UP
TAGS
Digital Media Rules
Comments

Enter feedback / question / suggestion
lock
We take comments from subscribers only!  Subscribe now to post comments! 
Already a subscriber?  Login

Vijay
2 months ago
maybe they can atleast give a count by social media and popular websites. This is a difficult thing for the url's to be public as folks could then find ways to override them but also in a way if some critical piece wants to be hidden those can be exposed. A committe consisting of folks other then the executive can help decide that as pointed.

0Reply
You may also like
Exclusive: Madhya Pradesh hired people close to RSS for govt jobs, skipping actual applicants 
Exclusive: Madhya Pradesh hired people close to RSS for govt jobs, skipping actual applicants
Prateek Goyal
Do you earn up to Rs 7 lakh? You might still be better off under the old tax regime
Do you earn up to Rs 7 lakh? You might still be better off under the old tax regime
Vivek Kaul
‘Dire imposition on press freedom’: Global media group on ‘press blackouts’ in Punjab during Amritpal search
Global media group condemns ‘press blackouts’ in Punjab during Amritpal search
NL Team
About
About Us
NL Explained
Meet the team
Contact Us
Careers
Privacy Policy
Terms of Services
Subscription
Subscribe
Account Details
NL Legal Fund
Subscriber FAQ
Paywall Stories
Podcast Letters
Student Subscription
Noteworthy
न्यूज़लॉन्ड्री हिन्दी
Newsletters
NL Store
NL Recess
NL Interviews
The Media Rumble
Books
Follow
rss
apple podcast
telegram
linkedin
spotify
linkedin
Download the Newslaundry app
google play store button
app store button
© Newslaundry Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.ibute
Once
Monthly
Yearly
Select amount
₹200
₹1000
₹2400
Type an amount
Continue
2
Add contact details
3
Review & Pay

ALSO READ
BOOKS
Agatha Christie's Books Reworked by Publisher to Exclude Potentially Offensive Passages
BOOKS
The Notable People Bhagat Singh Touched During His Lifetime
BOOKS
A Book on the Negotiations That Got Kashmir Closest to a Solution
BOOKS
How Does Caste Operate in Indian Higher Education?
MORE
ABOUT US
TERMS & CONDITIONS
PRIVACY POLICY
REFUND POLICY