‎Republic TV on the App Store
ExitAppleStoreMaciPadiPhoneWatchAirPodsTV & HomeEntertainmentAccessoriesSupport
0+
App Store Preview
Republic TV
12+
Headlines with Arnab Goswami
SARG Global Digital Private Limited
#96 in News
1.8 • 5.9K Ratings
Free
iPhone Screenshots
Description
Republic TV - the official app of India’s premier English news channel is your one-download solution to get a daily news fix of breaking news, headlines, round-the-clock access to Arnab Goswami, Live TV in HD, viral stories, power-packed opinion, trending videos, agenda-setting exclusives and all the action from the quarters of Sports and Glitz; and a lot, lot more from the Republic news center. Everything just got easier with the tap of just one button, the R.Talk to Arnab. 24x7:The only place you can catch Arnab online is on Republic World. Users can interact with Republic TV’s Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami round-the-clock on the hottest and most trending topics of the day. Ask him your questions, counter him with your opinion, pick a side and be heard on his Debate.Widest range of stories. Customised for YOU:Beating the clutter, Republic TV brings to you the zippiest content from across the globe-- and it is all curated with complete customisation for YOU.Whether it is politics, global, glitz & gossip, sports, business, regional, social, or all your go-to habits-- we’ve got you covered.R. Bharat: रिपब्लिक अब हिन्दी में। Don’t let language be a bar! Experience the democratisation of news and information like never before with R.Bharat -- the only hub for India’s vast Hindi-first story-loving audience.And incase you missed Republic TV’s on-air shows, we’ve got the complete repository-- including The Debate with Arnab Goswami, The Nation Wants to Know with Arnab Goswami, Patriot with Major Gaurav Arya and R.Glitz for all your latest news and entertainment scoops.Sign in to Republic TV and get your daily dose of news.
What’s New
1 Mar 2023
Version 2.1.5
* Bug fixes and performance improvements.
Ratings and Reviews
1.8 out of 5
5.9K Ratings
5.9K Ratings
Sudhir2853
,
05/12/2020
Always logged out of my account every time I force close the app or the phone is restarted.
Recently updated the app to version 2.0.4 and noticed this annoying bug. I chose to sign in the app using my google account and I’m always logged out every time I force close the app or the phone is restarted due to low battery or software update (that consequently force closes the app as well). Never faced such issue in the previous version.I’m using iPhone 5s and the software version is 12.4.9
Susant Behera
,
11/01/2018
App needs improvement
No doubt the app is fast & feels good but at the same time it needs so much improvement. 1. The opening interface is doesn't look so impressive. It needs to be improved & enhanced. Maximise content view, minimise the menu & lists.2. The lists of categories needs to put in a well organised manner. It should be in a side scroll manner instead of putting it in both top & bottom. 3. The language Hindi & English shouldn't have in the same page. There should be different pages for both languages having the same content.
Racing mania2014
,
11/05/2020
One of the most honest news channels in India
Republic tv is probably the only national channel which doesn’t accept funds from abroad. They try to stay loyal to their motherland India and news reported are purely based on facts and truth. They don’t try to manipulate the facts and distort the reality like lot of other channels do. Arnab Goswami is a little over aggressive at times but hats off to his energy level and enthusiasm in bringing out the truth behind incidents happening in our country ..
App Privacy
The developer, SARG Global Digital Private Limited, indicated that the app’s privacy practices may include handling of data as described below. For more information, see the developer’s privacy policy.
Data Not Linked to You
The following data may be collected but it is not linked to your identity:
Location
Contact Info
Identifiers
Usage Data
Diagnostics
Privacy practices may vary based on, for example, the features you use or your age. Learn More
Information
Provider
ARG Outlier Media Asianet News Private Limited
Size
53.3 MB
Category
News
Compatibility
iPhone
Requires iOS 10.0 or later.
iPod touch
Requires iOS 10.0 or later.
Languages
English
Age Rating
12+
Infrequent/Mild Simulated Gambling
Infrequent/Mild Medical/Treatment Information
Infrequent/Mild Mature/Suggestive Themes
Infrequent/Mild Sexual Content and Nudity
Infrequent/Mild Realistic Violence
Infrequent/Mild Alcohol, Tobacco, or Drug Use or References
Copyright
© 2020 ARG Outlier Media Pvt. Ltd.
Price
Free
Developer Website
App Support
Privacy Policy
Developer Website
App Support
Privacy Policy
You Might Also Like
Times Network
News
India TV: Hindi News Live App
News
India Today TV English News
News
ABP Live TV News Channel
News
Aaj Tak Live Hindi News India
News
News18: Latest & Breaking News
News
More ways to shop: Find a retailer near you. Or call 000800 040 1966.
India
Copyright © 2023 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Sales Policy
Legal
Site Map