
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Justice System  ‘Operation Trishul’: CBI gets fugitive deported from Saudi Arabia
Justice System
‘Operation Trishul’: CBI gets fugitive deported from Saudi Arabia
As of now, the CBI has brought as many as 33 fugitive criminals who had fled India under operation 'Trishul'

By PGurus Newsdesk -March 12, 2023
As of now, the CBI has brought as many as 33 fugitive criminals who had fled India under operation 'Trishul'
As of now, the CBI has brought as many as 33 fugitive criminals who had fled India under operation 'Trishul'
The murder accused extradited from Saudi Arabia by Kerala Police under Operation Trishul
The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has got Mohammed Hanif Makkat, who was wanted by Kerala Police allegedly involved in a kidnapping and murder case, deported from Saudi Arabia under ‘Operation Trishul‘, Sources have confirmed the news.


Makkat was involved in the brutal kidnapping cum murder case of one Karim which took place in 2006. The sources said that Hanif was deported from Saudi Arabia with the help of Interpol. After committing the murder he fled abroad. A Red Corner Notice was also issued against him by the federal probe agency.

Sources said, Interpol agencies, in collaboration with the Saudi government, brought back the fugitive under Operation Trishul – which was launched by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) launched last year to get back fugitives living abroad.

Indian officials informed Saudi Arabia about the location of the suspect and requested they send in a team to bring him back to India. A Kerala Police team on Sunday brought Mohammed Haneefa Makkatt back to India.

As of now, the CBI has brought as many as 33 fugitive criminals who have fled India under ‘Operation Trishul’. This operation was started in the mid of 2022. Last year the CBI was successful in bringing back 27 fugitive criminals from abroad. This year as of now they have brought seven fugitive criminals so far.

Last week, one Harchand Singh Gill, wanted in an Rs.45,000 crore chit fund scam, was brought to India from Fiji.

Operation Trishul helps geo-locate criminals in other countries with help from Interpol.

As part of the operation, officials investigate and locate crime proceeds in financial crime cases as well.

The CBI sources said that their operation will continue.

[With Inputs from IANS]

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts

PGurus Newsdesk

Previous article
Narco-terror nexus busted near LoC in J&K; 2 kgs of narcotics, 2 pistols, IED recovered
Next article
Centre opposes legalization of same-sex marriage, citing personal laws and societal values
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Senior Advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi mentioned the plea filed by 14 political parties against the arbitrary use of probe agencies ED and CBI
Law and Order
Supreme Court to hear on April 5 plea filed by 14 political parties against misuse of Central probe agencies
Why did the Interpol drop Choksi from its Red Corner Notice?
International/ World news
CBI approaches Interpol CCF to restore Red Corner Notice against Mehul Choksi
The official said that kickbacks allegedly paid to these Customs officers were around Rs.2.38 crore in lieu of clearing such illegal consignments
Corruption
CBI arrests five customs officials, two agents in forgery case
2 COMMENTS
Vijay March 13, 2023 At 9:50 AM
Just as we now know the number of criminals brought back, can someone publish the total amount of cash recovered since 2014 and value of properties attached by ED with comparative figures for 10 years before 2014. That will possibly shut a majority of the mouths.

Reply
sreeram March 12, 2023 At 7:13 PM
Good catch & happy on co-operation from Middle East. Missing from Year 2006 tiill now….

Reply
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Swarajya
Our View
DashboardsMagazine
User Profile
Subscribe
Swarajya

Politics
Economics
Business
Culture
Infra
Defence
World
Books
Ideas
Science
Technology
Heritage
Archives
Subscriber Login
POLITICS
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
bySwarajya Staff-Mar 15, 2023 01:54 PM +05:30 IST
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Home Minister Amit Shah.
Snapshot
All the updates from West Bengal politics in one place.

31 March update

Union Home Minister Amit Shah Union dialled the West Bengal Governor to enquire about the security situation in Howrah after violence continued in the town for a second straight day.

You have 2 free articles left this month. Please login to read.
Sign In With Password


Tags: Trinamool Congress, CBI, West Bengal politics, Enforcement Directorate (ED), Swarajya Dashboards, Santanu Banerjee, bribes for jobs scam, West Bengal scams, Bengal Dashboard, 
An Appeal...

Dear Reader,

As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.

Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.

We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.

Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200/year is the best way you can support our efforts.

Become A Patron
Become A Subscriber
Comments ↓
Magazine
The Silence Is Deafening
Subscribe Now
Get Swarajya in your inbox everyday. Subscribe here.
Email Address
Sign Up
Latest Articles
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Karnataka: Bommai-led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
Karnataka: Bommai-Led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
About Swarajya
Swarajya is a publication by Kovai Media Private Limited.

Swarajya - a big tent for liberal right of centre discourse that reaches out, engages and caters to the new India.

editor@swarajyamag.com
Useful Links
About Us
Subscriptions Support
Editorial Philosophy
Press Kit
Fact Check
Gift Swarajya
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Plagiarism Policy
Refund & Cancellation Policy
Participate
Contact Us
Write for us
Style Guide
Advertise
Jobs
Stay Connected


Copyright: Kovai Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by Quintype
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.