
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Justice System  Communist lawyers attempt to block the swearing-in ceremony of Justice Victoria Gowri...
Justice System
Communist lawyers attempt to block the swearing-in ceremony of Justice Victoria Gowri falls flat
Communist lawyers in Tamil Nadu was opposing Justice Victoria Gowri’s appointment citing that she was in BJP’s women’s wing and appeared in TV debates supporting right wingers

By Team PGurus -February 7, 2023
Communist lawyers in Tamil Nadu was opposing Justice Victoria Gowri’s appointment citing that she was in BJP’s women’s wing and appeared in TV debates supporting right wingers
Communist lawyers in Tamil Nadu was opposing Justice Victoria Gowri’s appointment citing that she was in BJP’s women’s wing and appeared in TV debates supporting right wingers
SC refuses to entertain plea to restrain Justice Chandra Victoria Gowri from taking oath as HC Judge
With anxious moments persisting in the morning, the Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain pleas seeking to restrain lawyer Lekshmana Chandra Victoria Gowri (49) from taking oath as an additional judge of the Madras High Court, saying a “consultative process” had taken place before her name was recommended by the collegium for the appointment. The argument started before a Special Bench comprising Justices Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai at 10:25 am and Gowri’s swearing-in took place at 10:46 am, the apex court at 10:53 am dismissed petitions seeking to stop her swearing-in.


‘Not entertaining writ petitions’ against appointment, says SC
The apex court said Gowri has been appointed as an additional judge and if she is not true to the oath or does not discharge her duties in accordance with the oath, the collegium is entitled to take a view of that, while pointing out that there have been instances where people have not been made permanent judges. Five minutes before the top court dismissed two pleas against Gowri’s appointment, she was administered the oath of office as an additional judge by Madras High Court’s Acting Chief Justice T Raja at around 10:48 am.

“We are not entertaining the writ petition. Reasons will follow,” said a special bench of Justices Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai, which assembled at 10:25 am to hear the plea, five minutes before the scheduled time of the court. The two pleas, including one moved by three Madras High Court lawyers, opposed Gowri’s appointment as an additional judge.

The bench told senior advocate Raju Ramachandran, who appeared in the matter for the petitioners, that there have been cases where people with political backgrounds have taken oath as judges of the Supreme Court and high courts. “Mr Ramachandran, there have been cases where people with political backgrounds have taken oath over here also, as judges of the Supreme Court and high courts,” it said.

Communist lawyers tried, but they failed
“The collegium overruled that. The collegium said personal or political views of a candidate cannot be a ground for not recommending his name,” Justice Gavai observed. “As a matter of fact, before I came here, I also had a political background and I have been a judge for the last 20 years,” he said.

Many persons in politics became Judges in India in the past. Justice Krishna Iyer was Minister in Kerala’s Communist Government. Justice S K Hegde and Justice Bahrul Islam were Congress’ Rajya Sabha MPs. The Communist lawyers in Tamil Nadu was opposing Justice Victoria Gowri’s appointment citing that she was in BJP’s women’s wing and appeared in TV debates supporting right wingers.

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts
Team PGurus
Team PGurus
We are a team of focused individuals with expertise in at least one of the following fields viz. Journalism, Technology, Economics, Politics, Sports & Business. We are factual, accurate and unbiased.

Previous article
Zameen Jihad: Bulldozer rattles Azad, Abdullah, Mufti, Lone and ilk
Next article
Elite club of encroachers growing fatter in Jammu and Kashmir
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Swamy accused Adani Group of stock manipulations, wants it nationalized
Business
PM Modi should nationalize all assets of Adani Group and then auction it for sale: Subramanian Swamy
1 COMMENT
Vijay February 11, 2023 At 11:07 AM
What is more desirable political affiliations of the past OR PRODUCTS OF NEPOTISM?

Reply
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.