
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Politics  US Politics  26/11 Mumbai terror attacks accused Tahawwur Rana moves US court for status...
PoliticsUS Politics
26/11 Mumbai terror attacks accused Tahawwur Rana moves US court for status conference
The US government asserted that Rana was part of the conspiracy and there is probable cause that he committed the substantive crime of commissioning a terrorist act

By Team PGurus -March 30, 2023
The US government asserted that Rana was part of the conspiracy and there is probable cause that he committed the substantive crime of commissioning a terrorist act
The US government asserted that Rana was part of the conspiracy and there is probable cause that he committed the substantive crime of commissioning a terrorist act
Rana strikes US courtroom for standing convention
Pakistani-origin Canadian Tahawwur Rana, one of the masterminds in the 2008 Mumbai 26/11 terror attacks, has approached a US court for a status conference after waiting for an order on his extradition to India for more than 20 months. Rana, 62, a childhood friend of the key mastermind David Coleman Headley, was re-arrested on June 10 in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He is a declared fugitive in India.


US District Court Judge in Los Angeles Jacqueline Chooljian held the last hearing on the extradition issue in June 2021 and the last set of papers was filed in July 2021. The court is yet to give a verdict on the US government’s request to extradite Rana to India. In a motion moved through his lawyer, Rana has asked for a status conference. “The last pleading in the case was filed on July 21, 2021. Given the passage of time and Rana’s continued incarceration, it appears appropriate for the court and counsel to discuss the current status of the matter,” his lawyer said.

The US government has not opposed the motion for a status conference. Rana’s lawyers have suggested that the status conference be held on April 25. During court hearings, federal prosecutors argued that Rana was aware that his childhood friend Headley was involved with the Pakistan-based terrorist group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), and that by assisting Headley and affording him cover for his activities, he was supporting the terrorist organization and its associates.

Rana knew of Headley’s meetings, what was discussed, and the planning of the attacks, including some of the targets. The US government asserted that Rana was part of the conspiracy and there was probable cause that he committed the substantive crime of commissioning a terrorist act. Rana’s attorney, on the other hand, opposed the extradition to India.

As many as 166 people, including six Americans, were killed during the attacks by the LeT members. Because members of the conspiracy committed acts resulting in death with the intention of causing death, or at a minimum committed those acts knowing its imminent dangers, there is sufficient evidence that the elements for murder would be satisfied, federal prosecutors said. “Under Indian law, other members of the conspiracy also would be liable for murder, even if they were not physically present,” it said, adding that in this case, death resulting from the attacks was foreseeable.

Rana knew that Headley was working with terrorists and that LeT and other co-conspirators were planning attacks in Mumbai. He also was aware of some of the potential targets, such as the Taj Mahal Palace Hotel and its second floor, because he and Headley had discussed those locations.

“Thus, Rana understood that by helping Headley and allowing him to use his immigration office in Mumbai as a cover, LeT and the other terrorists would be able to carry out their attacks. “Further, because Headley had a co-conspirator meet Rana in Dubai, UAE, and warn him of the upcoming attacks, Rana was in no doubt of what was going to happen,” according to the federal prosecutors.

Pakistani-American LeT terrorist Headley was involved in plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks. He was made an approver in the case and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack. India seeks his arrest on a number of offences, including the conspiracy to commit murder, conspiracy to commit forgery for the purpose of cheating, and murder under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He is sought for his role in the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai.

The 2008 Mumbai attack was one of India’s most horrific terrorist attacks. Pakistani national Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, the lone terrorist captured alive, was hanged to death on November 21, 2012.

[with PTI inputs]

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts
Team PGurus
Team PGurus
We are a team of focused individuals with expertise in at least one of the following fields viz. Journalism, Technology, Economics, Politics, Sports & Business. We are factual, accurate and unbiased.

Previous article
Traders’ body CAIT seeks empowered Regulatory Authority to monitor & regulate e-commerce
Next article
Lalit Modi plans to sue Rahul Gandhi in UK court over ‘fugitive’ jibe
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
The protesters in New York and Washington asked the US to impose sanctions against Pakistan for its role
Terrorism
Indian Diaspora held protests in US, Japan & UK against Pak-sponsored terrorism
Taking to Twitter, Sanyal said that Facebook has informed him that his post on the 26/11 Mumbai attacks is against the platform's Community Standards on spam
Social Media
Facebook blocks PM’s Economic Advisory Council Member Sanjeev Sanyal’s post on 26/11 Mumbai attacks, terms it as spam
Pakistan has for a long time now failed to pay attention to not only the quality of cards that it has but also on how to play them against India
Opinion
Beware the ides of February; three years since Balakot: Now What?
1 COMMENT
sreeram March 31, 2023 At 12:29 PM
He should move Switzerland Court of it is cooler & nice place to be
Swarajya
Our View
DashboardsMagazine
User Profile
Subscribe
Swarajya

Politics
Economics
Business
Culture
Infra
Defence
World
Books
Ideas
Science
Technology
Heritage
Archives
Subscriber Login
ECONOMY
'One Nation, One Grid, One Tariff' — "Noteworthy Reform," Says PM Modi On Unified Gas Pipeline Tariff Move
bySwarajya Staff-Mar 31, 2023 04:52 PM +05:30 IST
'One Nation, One Grid, One Tariff' — "Noteworthy Reform," Says PM Modi On Unified Gas Pipeline Tariff Move
Natural gas pipeline
India has taken another step towards becoming a gas-based economy.

The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board has introduced the implementation of a unified tariff, which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called "a noteworthy reform in the energy and natural gas sector."

The regulator amended its regulations to allow unified tariff for natural gas pipelines.

The downstream regular notified a tariff of Rs 73.93 per mmBtu (million metric British thermal unit) and three tariff zones based on the distance from the source of gas — up to 300 km, between 300 km and 1,200 km, and beyond 1,200 km.

The zonal tariffs will come into force from 1 April.

The Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri, took to Twitter on 30 March to say that the "much awaited reform in natural gas sector" is in line with the objective to take economic development to all parts of the country.

The move "will help India to achieve the ‘One Nation One Grid One Tariff’ model & also propel the gas markets in distant areas," Puri said in his tweet.

The tariff in India's North East is set to reduce by a quarter, and in the East it will be halved, Puri added.

The Government of India aims to signficantly raise the consumption of natural gas in the country, increasing its share in the overall energy basket from 6.2 per cent now to 15 per cent by 2030.

Tags: Natural Gas, Hardeep Singh Puri, Gas Pipeline, energy sector, unified tariff, gas-based economy, one nation one grid one tariff, 
An Appeal...

Dear Reader,

As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.

Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.

We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.

Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200/year is the best way you can support our efforts.

Become A Patron
Become A Subscriber
Comments ↓
Magazine
The Silence Is Deafening
Subscribe Now
Get Swarajya in your inbox everyday. Subscribe here.
Email Address
Sign Up
Latest Articles
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Karnataka: Bommai-led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
Karnataka: Bommai-Led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
About Swarajya
Swarajya is a publication by Kovai Media Private Limited.

Swarajya - a big tent for liberal right of centre discourse that reaches out, engages and caters to the new India.

editor@swarajyamag.com
Useful Links
About Us
Subscriptions Support
Editorial Philosophy
Press Kit
Fact Check
Gift Swarajya
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Plagiarism Policy
Refund & Cancellation Policy
Participate
Contact Us
Write for us
Style Guide
Advertise
Jobs
Stay Connected


Copyright: Kovai Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by Quintype
Reply
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.