
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Politics  Fraud  Chinese loan app case: ED freezes Rs.106 crore in Bengaluru
PoliticsFraud
Chinese loan app case: ED freezes Rs.106 crore in Bengaluru
The alleged proceeds of crime were parked under merchant IDs of various Indian fintech startups, including Razorpay, Cashfree, Paytm, PayU, and Easebuzz

By PGurus Newsdesk -March 30, 2023
The alleged proceeds of crime were parked under merchant IDs of various Indian fintech startups, including Razorpay, Cashfree, Paytm, PayU, and Easebuzz
The alleged proceeds of crime were parked under merchant IDs of various Indian fintech startups, including Razorpay, Cashfree, Paytm, PayU, and Easebuzz
ED crackdown on Chinese loan apps; freezes Rs.106 cr
On Wednesday, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said it has freezed Rs.106 crore lying in merchant IDs and bank accounts concerning the Chinese loan app fraud case. It had earlier attached Rs.77.25 crore from bank accounts and payment gateways.


The ED had initiated an investigation based on FIRs registered by the cyber crime police station, Bengaluru, under various sections of the Karnataka Money Lenders Act, Information Technology Act, Karnataka Prohibition of Charging Exorbitant Interest Act, and the Indian Penal Code against numerous entities in connection with their involvement in extortion and harassment of public who had availed small amounts of loans through mobile apps being run by entities controlled by Chinese nationals.

The ED investigation revealed the modus operandi of these entities. They were incorporated by appointing dummy directors on behalf of Chinese nationals, which used to obtain KYC documents of company staff and appoint them as directors in such entities and even opened bank accounts in their names, without their knowledge or prior consent.

“These entities were involved in criminal activities by submitting fake addresses in KYC documents and taking assistance from various professionals and other persons. They provided instant short-term loans to the public through loan apps and other means and charged high processing fees and exorbitant interest rates. The amounts were subsequently recovered from the public by these companies by way of threatening and causing mental torture over the phone as well as by contacting their family members, relatives, and friends asking for the money,” the ED said.

The official said that these Chinese-controlled entities indulged in huge money laundering activities through the merchant IDs maintained with various payment gateways, such as Razorpay, Cashfree, Paytm, PayU, Easebuzz, and bank accounts maintained with various banks, thereby generating proceeds of crime.

Further probe into the case is currently underway.

[With Inputs from IANS]

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts

PGurus Newsdesk

Previous article
NCLAT upholds penalty of Rs.1,337 cr on Google by CCI for abusing its dominant position in Android market
Next article
Centre exempts import duty on drugs, food for special medical purposes for personal use to treat rare diseases
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
The five-day event will include aerial displays by aircraft and helicopters along with a large exhibition and trade fair for aerospace and defence companies
Commerce
Bengaluru: PM Modi inaugurates ‘Aero India 2023’ at Air Force Station
Lokayukta has taken up an investigation regarding illegally taking over Rs 9,600 crore worth 1,100 acres of land in and around Bengaluru
Fraud
Rs.9,600 cr land scam: Complaint filed against Siddaramaiah, Robert Vadra in Karnataka
CBI officials are conducting searches at National Education Foundation (NEF) in Bengaluru
Corruption
CBI raids Karnataka Congress chief D K Shivakumar’s educational institution
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.