
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Business  Apple’s ‘Made in India’ smartphone shipments rose 65% YoY in 2022
Business
Apple’s ‘Made in India’ smartphone shipments rose 65% YoY in 2022
‘Made in India’ shipments from Apple grew 65% YoY by volume and 162% YoY by value, taking the brand’s value share to 25% in 2022, up from 12% in 2021

By PGurus Newsdesk -March 29, 2023
‘Made in India’ shipments from Apple grew 65% YoY by volume and 162% YoY by value, taking the brand’s value share to 25% in 2022, up from 12% in 2021
‘Made in India’ shipments from Apple grew 65% YoY by volume and 162% YoY by value, taking the brand’s value share to 25% in 2022, up from 12% in 2021
Apple’s EMS partners Foxconn Hon Hai, Wistron, and Pegatron were among the top 10 EMS players in India in 2022
According to a new report, Apple‘s ‘Make in India‘ shipments saw a 65 percent growth by volume and a 162 percent leap by value in 2022 compared to 2021. This success has increased the brand’s value share from 12 percent to 25 percent.


The contribution of exports in ‘Make in India’ smartphone shipments reached the highest ever in 2022 both in volume (20 percent) and value terms (30 percent), according to Counterpoint Research.

Overall, ‘Make in India’ smartphone shipments declined 3 percent YoY in 2022 (January-December) to reach 188 million units. The major factor behind this decline was the softening of consumer demand due to macroeconomic headwinds, especially in the second half of the year.

“Apple’s EMS (electronics manufacturing services) partners Foxconn Hon Hai and Wistron were the fastest growing manufacturers among the top 10 in Q4 2022. The growth was also fuelled by increasing exports from Apple,” said senior research analyst Prachir Singh.

In Q4 2022, Samsung emerged as the top smartphone manufacturer, ahead of OPPO whose manufacturing shipments declined 31 percent YoY due to inventory issues in the entry-tier segment.

“Apple’s EMS partners Foxconn Hon Hai, Wistron, and Pegatron were among the top 10 EMS players in India in 2022 in terms of volume. In terms of value, Foxconn Hon Hai and Wistron led the EMS landscape,” said Singh. Both of these manufacturers also received the PLI incentive in the recent disbursements.

Among OEMs, OPPO led the ‘Made in India’ smartphone shipments in 2022 with a 22 percent share, followed by Samsung.

Research Director Tarun Pathak said that overall, 2022 has been a good year in terms of manufacturing and localization in India.

“The increasing exports from Apple, Samsung, and other OEMs drove the locally manufactured shipments in 2022 and somewhat offset the impact of the local demand decline. The recent disbursement of PLI incentives from the government and other initiatives, both at the central and state levels, has boosted the overall local manufacturing,” Pathak noted.

Going forward, we may see the country reaping the benefits of the PLI scheme thanks to increasing exports from Apple and Samsung. The government will focus on leveraging geopolitics and improving local infrastructure to attract more investment.

[With Inputs from IANS]

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts

PGurus Newsdesk

Previous article
Historic passing out parade of Indian Navy’s first batch of Agniveers held at INS Chilka
Next article
Malegaon 2008 blast case: Supreme Court dismisses Lt Col Purohit’s plea challenging Bombay HC order
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
India and China will represent 25 percent of smartphones using eSIM connectivity by 2027, says the report
Commerce
eSIM market to be worth over $4 bn globally in 2023; to increase by 249 percent: Report
The decision will bolster the combat capabilities of the armed forces along the Line of Actual Control with China
Commerce
Defence Ministry approves capital procurement proposals worth Rs.4,276 cr for anti-tank, air defence missile systems
Addressing the Ambassadors’ Roundtable conference for the upcoming Aero India 2023, the minister said that Aero India is a premier global aviation trade fair
Military
India has robust defence manufacturing ecosystem, emerged as leading defence exporter: Rajnath Singh
1 COMMENT
sreeram March 29, 2023 At 2:33 PM
This Apple has no vitamins……nor it has any capacity to keep the Doctor away !!

Reply
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.