
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Politics  Justice System  Muslim, Christian & Jain leaders write to the Chief Justice of India...
PoliticsJustice System
Muslim, Christian & Jain leaders write to the Chief Justice of India & President; opposing same-sex marriage petitions
In letters, religious leaders claimed that any attempt to give legal sanction to same-sex marriage would cause complete havoc in the existing legal system and social structure

By Team PGurus -March 30, 2023
In letters, religious leaders claimed that any attempt to give legal sanction to same-sex marriage would cause complete havoc in the existing legal system and social structure
In letters, religious leaders claimed that any attempt to give legal sanction to same-sex marriage would cause complete havoc in the existing legal system and social structure
‘Same-sex marriage would cause complete havoc’: Religious leaders
Many Muslim, Christian, and Jain religious leaders have written to Chief Justice of India D Y Chandrachud to cite their religious beliefs to express opposition to same-sex marriage, an issue being heard by the Supreme Court. Sayed Salman Chishty of the Chishty Foundation, Ajmer, has conveyed his “concerns and reservations” to CJI, claiming that any legal validation for same-sex marriage will contradict India’s religious, social and moral values, and cause “havoc” with the delicate balance of personal laws and accepted societal values. Communion of Churches in India and Jain leaders also wrote the Chief Justice and President of India, expressing their opposition against pleas seeking legal validation of same-sex marriage.


“In India’s secular yet multi-faith context, which is already recognized as the most diverse country in the world, this is indeed a very complex and sensitive issue that needs careful deliberation and understanding before opinions are made part of national policies,” he said. Chishty cited Islamic beliefs to oppose the plea seeking legal validation for such a marriage.

The Communion of Churches in India has echoed similar views in a letter to President Droupadi Murmu and CJI. Prakash P Thomas of the Communion of Churches in India expressed “shock” at such a plea. According to Christian beliefs, marriage is a divine institution made by God, and cannot accept the union of two homosexuals as marriage, he claimed, urging the President to ensure the status quo on marriage.

Jain Guru Acharya Lokesh said legal sanction to same-sex marriage would go against the ethos of India’s ancient values-based society. In Indian culture, especially among Jains, marriage is a foundation to reproduction for extending the family tree, he said. Pravez Hanif of a Pasmanda (backward) Muslim group echoed the view of these groups.

The Government of India has also opposed in the Supreme Court a batch of pleas seeking legal validation of same-sex marriage, saying it would cause complete havoc with the delicate balance of personal laws and accepted societal values.

The petitions demanding legal validation of same-sex marriage is now pending before the Supreme Court of India. The Government of India already opposed the petitions.[1]

Reference:

[1] ‘Heterosexual Marriages The Norm’: Centre Opposes Pleas In Supreme Court Seeking Recognition For Same-Sex Marriages – Mar 12, 2023, Live Law

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts
Team PGurus
Team PGurus
We are a team of focused individuals with expertise in at least one of the following fields viz. Journalism, Technology, Economics, Politics, Sports & Business. We are factual, accurate and unbiased.

Previous article
Lalit Modi plans to sue Rahul Gandhi in UK court over ‘fugitive’ jibe
Next article
Donald Trump to be charged in connection with hush money paid to adult film star
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
The top court emphasized the importance of the principles of natural justice while classifying an account as fraudulent by banks
Banking
SC directs banks to grant opportunity of hearing to borrowers before classifying their accounts as fraud
On the issue of conversion of the entire area near the Bhagwandass Road as the Supreme Court block the CJI said, that such directions cannot be issued on the judicial side
Law and Order
Supreme Court rejects SCBA’s plea seeking allotment of land for lawyers’ chambers
Apex court suggests creating an expert panel to examine if death by hanging is the most suitable, painless method
Justice System
Death Penalty: Supreme Court of India asks Government for options/ alternatives for death by hanging method
3 COMMENTS
sreeram March 31, 2023 At 1:58 PM
SC & Economists say that if USA has 143 Genders to its small population, India has comparatively a thousandth of it, so should increase to meet international standards !! India should not lag behind !! For those surprised, giving some list taken from Internet (72) & Facebook (58) options.
Besides male and female, there are 72 other genders, which include the following:
Agender: Abimegender: Adamas gender: Aerogender: Aesthetigender: Affectugender: Agenderflux: Alexigender: Aliusgender: Amaregender: Ambigender: Ambonec: Amicagender: Androgyne: Anesigender: Angenital: Anogender: Anongender: Antegender: Anxiegender: Apagender: Apconsugender Astergender: Astral gender: Autigender: Autogender: Axigender: Bigender: Biogender: Blurgender: Boyflux: Burstgender: Caelgender: Cassgender:.Cassflux: Cavusgender: Cendgender: Ceterogender: Ceterofluid: Cisgender:.Cloudgender: Collgender:.Colorgender: Commogender: Condigender: Deliciagender: Demifluid: Demiflux: Demigender: Domgender: Duragender:.Egogender: Epicene: Esspigender: Exgender: Existigender: Femfluid: Femgender: Fluidflux Gemigender: Genderblank: Genderflow: Genderfluid: Genderfuzz: enderflux: Genderpuck: Genderqueer: Gender witched: Girlflux: Healgender: Mirrorgender: Omnigender:.
Facebook will also allow users to select between three pronouns: “him,” “her” or “their.”
The following are the 58 gender options identified by ABC News:
Agender Androgyne Androgynous Bigender Cis Cisgender Cis Female Cis Male Cis Man Cis Woman Cisgender Female Cisgender Male Cisgender Man Cisgender Woman Female to Male FTM Gender Fluid
Gender Nonconforming Gender Questioning Gender Variant Genderqueer Intersex Male to Female MTF Neither Neutrois Non-binary Pangender Trans Trans* Trans Female Trans* Female Trans Male
Trans* Male Trans Man Trans* Man Trans Person Trans* Person Trans Woman Trans* Woman Transfeminine Transgender Transgender Female Transgender Male Transgender Man Transgender Person Transgender Woman Transmasculine Transsexual Transsexual Female Transsexual Male Transsexual Man Transsexual Person Transsexual Woman Two-Spirit

Reply
sreeram March 31, 2023 At 1:47 PM
SC & Economists say that if USA has 143 Genders to its small population, India has comparatively a thousandth of it, so should increase to meet international standards !! India should not lag behind !! For those surprised, giving some list taken from Internet (72) & Facebook (58) options.

Besides male and female, there are 72 other genders, which include the following:

Agender: A person who does not identify themselves with or experience any gender. Agender people are also called null-gender, genderless, gendervoid, or neutral gender.
Abimegender: Associated with being profound, deep, and infinite. The term abimegender may be used alone or in combination with other genders.
Adamas gender: A gender that is indefinable or indomitable. People identifying with this gender refuse to be categorized in any particular gender identity.
Aerogender: Also called evaisgender, this gender identity changes according to one’s surroundings.
Aesthetigender: Also called aesthetgender, it is a type of gender identity derived from aesthetics.
Affectugender: This is based on the person’s mood swings or fluctuations.
Agenderflux: A person with this gender identity is mostly agender with brief shifts of belonging to other gender types.
Alexigender: The person has a fluid gender identity between more than one type of gender although they cannot name the genders they feel fluid in.
Aliusgender: This gender identity stands apart from existing social gender constructs. It means having a strong specific gender identity that is neither male nor female.
Amaregender: Having a gender identity that changes depending on the person one is emotionally attached to.
Ambigender: Having two specific gender identities simultaneously without any fluidity or fluctuations.
Ambonec: The person identifies themselves as both man and woman and yet does not belong to either.
Amicagender: A gender-fluid identity where a person changes their gender depending on the friends they have.
Androgyne: A person feels a combination of feminine and masculine genders.
Anesigender: The person feels close to a specific type of gender despite being more comfortable in closely identifying themselves with another gender.
Angenital: The person desires to be without any primary sexual characteristics although they do not identify themselves as genderless.
Anogender: The gender identity fades in and out in intensity but always comes back to the same gendered feeling.
Anongender: The person has a gender identity but does not label it or would prefer to not have a label.
Antegender: A protean gender that can be anything but is formless and motionless.
Anxiegender: This gender identity has anxiety as its prominent characteristic.
Apagender: The person has apathy or a lack of feelings toward one’s gender identity.
Apconsugender: It means knowing what are not the characteristics of gender but not knowing what are its characteristics. Thus, a person hides its primary characteristics from the individual.
Astergender: The person has a bright and celestial gender identity.
Astral gender: Having a gender identity that feels to be related to space.
Autigender: Having a gender identity that feels to be closely related to being autistic.
Autogender: Having a gender experience that is deeply connected and personal to oneself.
Axigender: A gender identity that is between the two extremes of agender and any other type of gender. Both the genders are experienced one at a time without any overlapping. The two genders are described as on the opposite ends of an axis.
Bigender: Having two gender identities at the same or different times.
Biogender: Having a gender that is closely related to nature.
Blurgender: Also called gender fuss, blurgender means having more than one gender identities that blur into each other so that no particular type of gender identity is clear.
Boyflux: The person identifies themselves as male, but they experience varying degrees of male identity. This may range from feeling agender to completely male.
Burstgender: Frequent bursts of intense feelings quickly move to the initial calm stage.
Caelgender: This gender identity shares the qualities or aesthetics of outer space.
Cassgender: It is associated with the feelings of considering the gender irrelevant or unimportant.
Cassflux: There is a fluctuating intensity of irrelevance toward gender.
Cavusgender: The person feels close to one gender when depressed and to another when not depressed.
Cendgender: The gender identity changes from one gender to its opposite.
Ceterogender: It is a nonbinary gender where the person has a specific masculine, feminine or neutral feelings.
Ceterofluid: Although the person is a ceterogender, their identity keeps fluctuating between different genders.
Cisgender: Being closely related to the gender assigned at birth during the entire life.
Cloudgender: The person’s gender cannot be comprehended or understood due to depersonalization and derealization disorder.
Collgender: Various genders are present at the same time in the individual.
Colorgender: In this category, colors are used to describe gender, for example, pink gender or black gender.
Commogender: The person knows that they are not cisgender yet continues to identify as one for a while.
Condigender: The person feels their gender only under specific circumstances.
Deliciagender: Associated with the feeling of having multiple genders but preferring one over the other.
Demifluid: Having multiple genders, some fluid while others are static.
Demiflux: A combination of multiple genders with some genders static, whereas others fluctuating in intensity.
Demigender: The individual has partial traits of one gender and the rest of the other gender.
Domgender: The individual has multiple genders with one dominating over the rest.
Duragender: Having more than one gender with one lasting longer than the others.
Egogender: It is a personal type of gender identified by the individual alone. It is based on the person’s experience within the self.
Epicene: It is associated with a strong feeling of not being able to relate to any of the two genders of the binary gender or both of the binary gender characteristics.
Esspigender: The individual relates their gender identity with spirits.
Exgender: The denial to identify with any gender on the gender spectrum.
Existigender: The person’s gender identity exists only when they make conscious efforts to realize it.
Femfluid: The person is fluid or fluctuating regarding the feminine genders.
Femgender: A nonbinary gender identity that is feminine.
Fluidflux: It means to be fluid between two or more genders with a fluctuation in the intensity of those genders.
Gemigender: The person has two genders that are opposite yet they flux and work together.
Genderblank: It is closely related to a blank space.
Genderflow: The gender identity is fluid between infinite feelings.
Genderfluid: The person does not consistently adhere to one fixed gender and may have many genders.
Genderfuzz: More than one gender is blurred together.
Genderflux: The gender fluctuates in intensity.
Genderpuck: The person resists to fit in societal norms concerning genders.
Genderqueer: The individual blurs the preconceived boundaries of gender in relation to the gender binary or having just one gender type.
Gender witched: The person is inclined toward the notion of having one gender but does not know which.
Girlflux: The individual identifies themselves as a female but with varying intensities of female identities.
Healgender: A gender identity that gives the person peace, calm, and positivity.
Mirrorgender: Changing one’s gender type based on the people surrounding.
Omnigender: Having or experiencing all genders.

Facebook will also allow users to select between three pronouns: “him,” “her” or “their.”

The following are the 58 gender options identified by ABC News:

Agender
Androgyne
Androgynous
Bigender
Cis
Cisgender
Cis Female
Cis Male
Cis Man
Cis Woman
Cisgender Female
Cisgender Male
Cisgender Man
Cisgender Woman
Female to Male
FTM
Gender Fluid
Gender Nonconforming
Gender Questioning
Gender Variant
Genderqueer
Intersex
Male to Female
MTF
Neither
Neutrois
Non-binary
Other
Pangender
Trans
Trans*
Trans Female
Trans* Female
Trans Male
Trans* Male
Trans Man
Trans* Man
Trans Person
Trans* Person
Trans Woman
Trans* Woman
Transfeminine
Transgender
Transgender Female
Transgender Male
Transgender Man
Transgender Person
Transgender Woman
Transmasculine
Transsexual
Transsexual Female
Transsexual Male
Transsexual Man
Transsexual Person
Transsexual Woman
Two-Spirit

Reply
sreeram March 31, 2023 At 12:26 PM
Chief Justice will say – freedom of choosing life partner & instruct govt to frame rules to support Transgender.

Reply
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.