
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Opinion  Modi government is hard on Opposition, soft on BJP: What should courts...
Opinion
Modi government is hard on Opposition, soft on BJP: What should courts do?
If the ruling party is corrupt and discriminatory, we should let the people judge the Modi govt in the next elections and punish it accordingly

By Ganesan Subramanian -March 1, 2023
If the ruling party is corrupt and discriminatory, we should let the people judge the Modi govt in the next elections and punish it accordingly
If the ruling party is corrupt and discriminatory, we should let the people judge the Modi govt in the next elections and punish it accordingly
Oppositions claim of central agencies being misused
There is a criticism about the Modi government that it is misusing agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED), Income Tax, etc to target the opposition parties while going soft on BJP’s own leaders. Their criticism is quite justified.


Opposition leaders show statistics that the percentage of cases filed against BJP leaders is insignificant whereas the vast majority of the cases filed are only against the opposition leaders.

They also say the cases against the opposition leaders gain a lot more traction than the very few cases against BJP leaders and against the opposition leaders who crossed over to BJP.

And they also say that the track record of these agencies in terms of getting convictions is abysmally low.

I think they are making a strong case for how the Modi government is vindictive against the opposition leaders.

Dr. Abshishek Manu Singhvi, a Senior Lawyer of the SC and a top leader of the Congress party told India Today that he proposes to get many opposition party leaders to sign up to file a case against the Central government and these agencies like the CBI, ED, and Income Tax that this is discriminatory and this should be stopped, in the interest of fairness.

Corruption has been a scourge that has infested politics almost ever since Independence very badly and we have all cried from the rooftops about it but none, including the judiciary, has been able to do anything about it.

If at all there is a case, it is for going hammer and tongs against corruption in high places and not for whittling them down. Fairness is not stopping all corruption cases against leaders of all political parties, but proceeding against all fair corruption cases against leaders of all political parties.

But then, it is the ruling party that has the levers of power today. How do we justify proceeding only against the opposition leaders right now, in a discriminatory way?

If the ruling party is corrupt too, but is discriminatory, we should let the people judge the Modi government in the next elections and punish it. This will bring in the opposition, in some form, to power. We should let the opposition (which would be in power then) file cases against the BJP leaders and have them punished for their acts of corruption.

This way, any political party indulging in corruption would run the risk of being punished, sometimes, if not today. This is precisely what the people would want.

People would not desire the courts to intervene at this stage and stall the corruption cases against the opposition leaders and prevent any corruption cases from moving forward.

Hope the SC and other courts don’t fall for the temptation to stall the cases against the opposition leaders in the name of equity, thus maintaining the status quo ante of corruption cases against the high and mighty being stalled forever.

Note:
1. Text in Blue points to additional data on the topic.
2. The views expressed here are those of the author and do not necessarily represent or reflect the views of PGurus.

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts

Ganesan Subramanian
An Engineer-entrepreneur and Africa Business Consultant, Ganesan has many suggestions for the Government and sees the need for the Govt to tap the ideas of its people to perform to its potential.

Previous article
Karan Singh does not know what he says
Next article
Home Ministry suspends FCRA license of think-tank Centre for Policy Research for violations in accepting foreign donations
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
The alleged proceeds of crime were parked under merchant IDs of various Indian fintech startups, including Razorpay, Cashfree, Paytm, PayU, and Easebuzz
Fraud
Chinese loan app case: ED freezes Rs.106 crore in Bengaluru
The proceeds of crime generated through these betting apps were being traced and it has been found that bank accounts in the name of various fictitious entities have been opened for routing and layering of money
Fraud
ED raids fintech involved in illegal online betting; freezes over Rs.3 crore bank deposits
The money laundering case of 2020 stems from an FIR filed by the Bengaluru Police against the defaulters and the promoters of the bank
Banking
ED attaches Rs.114.19 cr assets of Sri Guru Raghavendra Sahakara Bank’s defaulters
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.