
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Politics  Law and Order  Supreme Court permits Centre’s plea seeking Rs.5,000 cr from SEBI-Sahara fund to...
PoliticsLaw and Order
Supreme Court permits Centre’s plea seeking Rs.5,000 cr from SEBI-Sahara fund to repay depositors
A bench of Justices M R Shah and C T Ravikumar said the amount shall be disbursed to the depositors duped by the Sahara group of cooperative societies

By PGurus Newsdesk -March 29, 2023
A bench of Justices M R Shah and C T Ravikumar said the amount shall be disbursed to the depositors duped by the Sahara group of cooperative societies
A bench of Justices M R Shah and C T Ravikumar said the amount shall be disbursed to the depositors duped by the Sahara group of cooperative societies
Good News for Sahara India investors
On Wednesday, the Supreme Court allowed a plea by the Central government seeking an Rs.5,000 crore allocation out of Rs.24,000 crore, which was deposited by Sahara Group with market regulator SEBI, to repay the depositors.


A bench, headed by Justice M R Shah and comprising Justice C T Ravikumar, passed the direction on the application filed by the government in a PIL by Pinak Mani Mohanty. It said the amount should be disbursed to depositors duped by the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies and the entire process will be monitored by a former judge of the top court, R Subhash Reddy.

“The manner and modalities for making the payment are to be worked out by the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies in consultation with Justice R Subhash Reddy, former judge of this court, and Gaurav Agarwal, advocate,” the bench said.

“Out of the total amount of Rs.24,979.67 crore lying in the ‘Sahara-SEBI Refund Account’, Rs.5,000 crore be transferred to the Central Registrar of Cooperative Societies, who, in turn, shall disburse the same against the legitimate dues of the depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies, which shall be paid to the genuine depositors in the most transparent manner and on proper identification and on submitting proof of their deposits and proof of their claims and to be deposited in their respective bank accounts directly.”

It further added that the amount be paid to the respective genuine depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies out of the aforesaid amount of Rs.5,000 crore at the earliest, but not later than nine months from today, and balance amount be again transferred to the Sahara-SEBI refund account.

Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appeared on behalf of the Centre in the matter. The apex court was informed that Rs.2,253 crore had been taken out of the Sahara Credit Cooperative Society Ltd., i.e., one of the four Sahara group multi-state cooperative societies, and deposited with SEBI in the Sahara-SEBI refund account, and the amount lying in the account is lying unutilized.

“The genuine depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies, which otherwise, shall be entitled to get back their money, the prayer sought in the present application seems to be reasonable and which shall be in the larger public interest/ interest of the genuine depositors of the Sahara Group of Cooperative Societies,” noted the bench.

Mohanty, in the PIL, had sought a direction to pay to the depositors, who invested in several chit fund companies and Sahara credit firms.

The Central government had sought money from the fund, which was formed after the top court in August 2012 directed two Sahara firms — Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Ltd (SIRECL) and Sahara Housing India Corporation Ltd (SHICL) — to refund investors.

[With Inputs from IANS]

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts

PGurus Newsdesk

Previous article
Malegaon 2008 blast case: Supreme Court dismisses Lt Col Purohit’s plea challenging Bombay HC order
Next article
NCLAT upholds penalty of Rs.1,337 cr on Google by CCI for abusing its dominant position in Android market
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Move follows non-payment of dues amounting to Rs.6.42 crore levied for flouting regulatory norms
Banking
SEBI orders attachment of bank, demat accounts of Sahara group firm, Subrata Roy, others
Sahara in an unenSwarajya
Our View
DashboardsMagazine
User Profile
Subscribe
Swarajya

Politics
Economics
Business
Culture
Infra
Defence
World
Books
Ideas
Science
Technology
Heritage
Archives
Subscriber Login
NEWS HEADLINES
100 Years Of Vaikom Satyagaha: TN Announces Year-Long Events; New E V Ramasamy Memorial To Be Constructed
bySwarajya Staff-Mar 31, 2023 11:42 AM +05:30 IST
100 Years Of Vaikom Satyagaha: TN Announces Year-Long Events; New E V Ramasamy Memorial To Be Constructed
Vaikom Mahadeva Temple.(Wikimedia Commons)
The Tamil Nadu government would organise year long events to commemorate the Vaikom struggle and disseminate the legendary movement's history, objective and its victory, Chief Minister M K Stalin announced on Thursday (30 March) in the Assembly.

The historic Vaikom struggle (1924-25) was against untouchability and it demanded that the ban be lifted on the oppressed people to walk on roads in and around the Mahadeva Temple at Vaikom town in Kottayam district of Kerala.

Efforts would be made to set up a new memorial for E V Ramasamy at Aruvikutti village in Kerala where the leader was first imprisoned for participating in the Vaikom movement, he said, adding steps shall be taken to release a special commemorative postage stamp.

Making a statement in the House, the Chief Minister said he would take part in the Kerala government's Vaikom struggle centenary on 1 April, 2023.

Noted scholar Pazha Adiyaman's Tamil work 'Vaikom Porattam' would be released in Malayalam. Also, Telugu, Kannada and English versions would be soon released.

On 29 November 2023, a grand event would be held by the Tamil Nadu government and he and his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan and several personalities would take part.

Stalin announced instituting 'Vaikom Award' to honour those who work outside of Tamil Nadu for the welfare of the oppressed people and bring a remarkable change. The award would be presented on September 17, the social justice day, he said. Also, the E V Ramasamy Memorial in Vaikom would be revamped and Rs 8.14 crore would be set apart.

In universities and colleges seminars on the struggle shall be organised. Quiz, elocution and essay competitions would be held for school and college students.

To create awareness among students on Vaikom struggle, a 64-page book would be released by Tamil Nadu Textbook and Educational Services Corporation and a centenary souvenir would be released by the government's 'Tamizharasu' magazine.

Stalin said the Vaikom struggle led by social reformer TK Madhavan began on 30 March, 1924 and ended on 23 November, 1925 and an event to mark the victory of the satyagraha movement was chaired by E V Ramasamy on 29 November 1925 at Vaikom.

(With Inputs From PTI)

Tags: Vaikom Satyagraha, 
An Appeal...

Dear Reader,

As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.

Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.

We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.

Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200/year is the best way you can support our efforts.

Become A Patron
Become A Subscriber
Comments ↓
Magazine
The Silence Is Deafening
Subscribe Now
Get Swarajya in your inbox everyday. Subscribe here.
Email Address
Sign Up
Latest Articles
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Karnataka: Bommai-led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
Karnataka: Bommai-Led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
About Swarajya
Swarajya is a publication by Kovai Media Private Limited.

Swarajya - a big tent for liberal right of centre discourse that reaches out, engages and caters to the new India.

editor@swarajyamag.com
Useful Links
About Us
Subscriptions Support
Editorial Philosophy
Press Kit
Fact Check
Gift Swarajya
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Plagiarism Policy
Refund & Cancellation Policy
Participate
Contact Us
Write for us
Style Guide
Advertise
Jobs
Stay Connected


Copyright: Kovai Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by Quintypeding battle of over nine years with SEBI on how much was paid
Banking
SEBI vs Sahara row over how much was paid. Funds totaling Rs.24,000 crore lying unutilized with SEBI
Following the deposit of amount, the attachment order against the company and its directors would be lifted, SAT said in an order
Law and Order
Securities Appellate Tribunal orders Sahara group firm, ex-directors including Subrata Roy to deposit Rs.2,000 cr with SEBI in four weeks
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.