
       
Politics
Business
Books
Culture
PGurus - Insights for the Global IndianPGurus
PGurus - Insights for the Global Indian
POLITICS
BUSINESS
BOOKS
CULTURE
Home  Justice System  Missionary school in MP’s Morena sealed after liquor, condoms found during inspection
Justice System
Missionary school in MP’s Morena sealed after liquor, condoms found during inspection
The inspection was conducted by the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights

By PGurus Newsdesk -March 26, 2023
The inspection was conducted by the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights
The inspection was conducted by the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights
Surprise inspection finds liquor and condoms in the principal’s room of a missionary school
In a shocking incident reported from the Morena district of Madhya Pradesh, packets of condoms, and liquor bottles were recovered from a missionary school during a surprise inspection by Child Right Protection Commission.


The inspection was conducted by the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) on Saturday.

The SCPCR team found beds, liquor and condoms, egg trays, and gas cylinders. “I saw a gas cylinder and other objectionable stuff, including liquor bottles. Police are investigating the whole matter,” Nivedita Sharma, a member of the SCPCR inspection team said, adding that she had brought the matter to the notice of the District Collector.

An FIR has been lodged against the school’s principal and a detailed investigation has been demanded from the police.

“When we reached there for a routine inspection, we were surprised to know how both corners of the school were attached from the inside… It was a room and liquor bottles and condoms were found there. It was like a complete residential setup. It does not belong to only one person, but more people came out of the building who were living there. It was being used as an accommodation,” Sharma told IANS.

She further said that at least 15 beds were lying in that room and there was no CCTV camera.

“The question arises that when CCTV cameras are installed in other locations of the building, why was that particular section left out. If the principal said he wasn’t staying there, then who was staying, and why 15 beds are present there. More importantly, why does that room have a direct entrance with classrooms of girl students,” Nivedita Sharma said.

She further said that liquor is not allowed on the school campus at all. “It is a violation of the law. The excise department is also taking action on the matter as it is also illegal that nobody can keep such amounts of liquor. Some other objectionable stuff, including condoms, were also found,” she added.

Following the inspection, the District Collector ordered the seizure of the school. Based on the recovery of foreign liquor bottles, the school principal has been booked by the excise department.

[With Inputs from IANS]

PGurus is now on Telegram. Click here to join our channel and stay updated with all the latest news and views

For all the latest updates, download PGurus App.

Author Recent Posts

PGurus Newsdesk

Previous article
India summons Canadian envoy over protest by Khalistan supporters; seeks explanation for ‘security breach’
Next article
My New Letter Series – Dear Ex Muslim Angel, Women Should Not Have Any Rights…
LEAVE A REPLY
Comment:
Name:*
Email:*
Website:
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.

Post Comment
BOOKS

Books
The Scarlet Horizon: Sri Krishna and the feminine energy he believed...
The author has done a remarkable job of refuting this falsified history with the help of factual data enlisted from various contemporaneous sources. Let us have a look
Books
Aurangzeb, as he really was!
Books on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s relationship with the Sikh community internationally released by NID Foundation at Chicago
Books
India’s Ambassador to the US, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar unveil books...
This book by Sudha Mohan breaks many of the myths surrounding the ‘caste system’.
Books
Sivasya Kulam: Decoding Caste and Untouchability and White Man’s Burden by...
The author Rajessh M Iyer beautifully brings forth the fact that the meaningful words that the world gives so much importance to holds no water compared to these inane words and even the unsaid messages of the hearts
Books
‘Jabberwockiers’ book review: Tender yet Turbulent
 DAILYMOTION  FACEBOOK  INSTAGRAM  PAYPAL  SOUNDCLOUD  TELEGRAM  TWITTER  YOUTUBE
Disclaimer About Us Contact Us
© 2021 PGurus | All rights reserved.MORE STORIES
Jawed Habib | Earlier, Habib had landed in trouble for disrespecting Hindu Gods, in his salon advertisement in a newspaper
Jawed Habib’s repugnant spitting act causes irk; NCW takes cognizance
January 6, 2022
The insidious ways in which the UPA government-operated continues to come out – Cyriac Joseph is another shining example of this
The dubious role of retired Supreme Court Justice Cyriac Joseph in...
December 25, 2020

Swarajya
Our View
DashboardsMagazine
User Profile
Subscribe
Swarajya

Politics
Economics
Business
Culture
Infra
Defence
World
Books
Ideas
Science
Technology
Heritage
Archives
Subscriber Login
ANALYSIS
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
byPrasanna-Apr 1, 2023 01:28 AM +05:30 IST
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Karnataka Election 2023
Snapshot
The history and politics behind the demand for internal reservations within Dalit quota. in Karnataka

In what is being increasingly viewed as a politically astute manoeuvring ahead of the upcoming Karnataka Legislative Assembly elections, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government last week abolished religion-based reservations by scrapping 4 per cent reservation given to Muslims in Karnataka under 2B of Other Backward Classes (OBC) category.

The state cabinet distributed the disbanded 4% quota to two politically influential communities — Veerashaiva-Lingayats and Vokkaligas — at 2 per cent each in jobs and admissions in educational institutions.

The state cabinet also decided that the Muslim community in the state will avail of benefits under the 10 per cent quota for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS). The government also quickly moved to notify the rules for EWS this week.

While the decision by the BJP government in Karnataka to abolish religion-based reservations triggered a furore, another momentous move to introduce internal reservation within the overall 17% quota for the Schedule Castes (SC) did not garner as much attention.

The demand for internal reservation within the Dalit quota in Karnataka has been a long-standing one by various groups in the state. Despite repeatedly promising to reconfigure the internal reservation matrix, no government dared to implement it for fear of antagonising sub-caste groups.

 It was finally left to the Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai-led BJP government to demonstrate sufficient political courage to devise and announce the sub-quota formula.

Dalits in Karnataka, encompassing 101 castes, are historically divided into two main categories - 'Edgai' SC (Left), or the Madiga, and 'Balgai' SC (Right) or the Holeya ( some prefer Chalavadis). The third category is the "touchable" castes, such as Lambani and Bhovi, who do not belong to the left or right grouping but are believed to have benefited the most from the reservation. Dozens of other marginal SC communities constitute the fourth category.

Sadashiva Commission

In 2005, the state government constituted a commission headed by Justice A. J. Sadashiva to ascertain any discrepancies in the distribution of benefits under Articles 15 and 16 of the Constitution and whether these benefits were equally distributed among all castes and groups included in the SC list.

The commission submitted its report in 2012. Though the report and its recommendations have not been officially tabled in the Legislative Assembly, it is known to have recommended 6 per cent to SC (Left), 5 per cent to SC (Right), 3 per cent to 'Touchables' and one per cent to Other SC communities

The Sadashiva Commission report also held that Madigas were the most backward among the Dalit castes in Karnataka. The commission looked at various indices such as the number of government jobs held, the proportion of agricultural land owned, and political representation by members of different Dalit caste groups. 

Madigas have historically worked with the polluting item, leather, while Holeyas are primarily involved in agricultural production and allied activities as labourers.

Madigas have long argued that the less backward SC communities grabbed most of the SC quota. The Sadashiva Commission also agreed that SC (Right) garnered more benefits from reservation than the other SC communities as, comparatively, they were in a better situation in terms of education and employment.

Based on the survey and other studies it did, the commission estimated a SC population at around 96 lakhs with SC (Left) accounting for 33.47 per cent, SC (Right) accounting for 32 per cent, 'Touchables' around 23.64 per cent and other SC communities 4.65 per cent.

The report recommended that there should be an internal reservation formula with the largest share, that is, 6 per cent, going to Madigas (and associated castes) within the quota for the SCs(15% at that time). Of the remaining 9 per cent, the commission recommended that 5 per cent be reserved for Holeyas (and associated castes), 3 per cent for "touchable" Dalits, and 1 per cent for other Dalits. Little over 6.23 per cent of the Dalit population did not state their specific caste.

Despite election-eve promises to Madigas that the report's recommendations would be implemented, the internal recalibration of the SC quota was never done.

Even during the tenure of Siddaramaiah, who fashions himself as the champion of AHINDA, the assurances given by Congress to Madigas were not implemented, fearing blowback from other SC groups.

BJP government's brave gambit

The Dalit community in the state used to form a big support base of Congress. However, SC (Right) dominated political representation, especially the preponderance of Holeya members in the legislative assembly compared to the minuscule representation of Madigas. 

Congress's Dalit leadership is also dominated by SC (Right). AICC President Mallikarjun Kharge, former CM G.Parameshswara and former Union Minister K.H Muniyappa all belong to SC (Right) category

Dalit politics in the state, however, began to change thanks to some deft social engineering and sustained Sangh outreach. BJP began gaining significant support among the SC (Left), especially the Madiga community.

While Lingayats form the bulwark of the BJP support base in the state, the party could add 'SC Left' to its social coalition. Disillusioned with the Congress appeasing the SC (Right), Madigas voted in large numbers for the BJP in 2008, helping it capture power in the state.

BJP also managed to win the backing of Basavamurthy Swami, an influential seer of the Madara Chennaiah Gurupeetha Math in the Chitradurga district. BJP also promoted leaders within the SC (Left) especially Govind M. Karjol, a Madiga, who served as Deputy Chief Minister in BS Yeddyurappa ministry

For over a decade now, several Dalit organisations have been demanding that the quantum of reservation in Karnataka should be increased as the population of Dalits. Justice Nagamohan Das Committee, too made a similar recommendation.

With the state assembly elections around the corner, various communities in the state began demanding to either hike reservations or alter their reservation status in Karnataka. 

With social groups that are favourably inclined to BJP also raising quota demands, the opposition Congress was hoping to reap substantial electoral dividends calculating that the quota quagmire would sink the government in the assembly election.

As state politics descended to a simmering caste cauldron, the BJP government responded with a series of moves.

In October 2022, the state government hiked the reservation for Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) communities. Reservation for SC was increased from 15 to 17 per cent and ST from 3 to 7 per cent. BJP government gazetted it via the ordinance route. Governor Thawarchand Gehlot approved the ordinance.

After hiking the quota commensurate with the increased population, the state government recast the internal reservation formula for the 17 per cent quota for around SC community

The SC (Left) category, which consists of 29 communities, including Madigas, will get 6 per cent of the quota. SC (Right), with around 25 communities such as Holeyas, will get 5.5 per cent. 'Touchable' communities such as Banjaras, Bhovis, Koracha, and Korma will have 4.5 per cent of the quota. Dozens of other small SC communities will get 1 per cent.

Despite some resistance to the new internal formula, political observers in the state believe that BJP has defused the situation well and has played its cards well though they are unsure if the move will yield handsome electoral rewards. It is, however, likely to make it difficult for Congress to mount a coherent counter-narrative on quota issue.

Legal Obstacles To Sub-quota

A final hurdle to the internal SC quota reconfiguration, however remains. While the constitution is clear that removal or the inclusion of any caste or part or group of such caste from the SC list shall be done by parliament, no clarity exists on the process for internal sub-classification of any existing SC reservation. 

In 2020, a five-member Supreme Court bench [headed by Justice Arun Mishra] referred the issue to a seven-member bench.

In 2004, a five-member constitutional bench headed by Justice Santosh Hegde, unanimously outlawed a decision by the Andhra Pradesh government to sub-divide SC quota. 'Chinnaiah judgment' held that any sub-grouping by a state amounted to tinkering with these Schedules, for which only parliament is authorised. The court held that all the castes within these lists are assumed to be homogenous.

Earlier attempts by Punjab and Haryana to categorise internal reservations within the Dalit quota have failed to get sanction from the Supreme Court.

If the seven-member bench reverses its 2004 judgment and lays down the criteria for sub-grouping, the Bommai government's formula will get a legal imprimatur. A constitutional amendment to reclassify the reservation is also a possibility. However, the Union Government may be reluctant to do that as the appeal is pending before a seven-judge bench of the Supreme Court.

Freelance writer, and student of politics
Tags: 2023 Karnataka elections, Karnataka quota stir, Dalit reservation internal quota, Internal quota, Dalits in Karnataka, 
An Appeal...

Dear Reader,

As you are no doubt aware, Swarajya is a media product that is directly dependent on support from its readers in the form of subscriptions. We do not have the muscle and backing of a large media conglomerate nor are we playing for the large advertisement sweep-stake.

Our business model is you and your subscription. And in challenging times like these, we need your support now more than ever.

We deliver over 10 - 15 high quality articles with expert insights and views. From 7AM in the morning to 10PM late night we operate to ensure you, the reader, get to see what is just right.

Becoming a Patron or a subscriber for as little as Rs 1200/year is the best way you can support our efforts.

Become A Patron
Become A Subscriber
Comments ↓
Magazine
The Silence Is Deafening
Subscribe Now
Get Swarajya in your inbox everyday. Subscribe here.
Email Address
Sign Up
Latest Articles
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Karnataka: Bold Gambit By BJP Government To Carve Out Internal Reservation Within Dalit Quota May Queer Pitch For Congress
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Chennai To Get Its Fourth Desalination Plant As Metro Water Picks Va Tech Wabag To Build 400 MLD Project At Rs 4400 Crores
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Bengal Dashboard: Amit Shah Dials WB Governor After Arson Continues In Howrah For Second Straight Day; Section 144 Imposed
Karnataka: Bommai-led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
Karnataka: Bommai-Led BJP Government Notifies 10% EWS, Braces Up For State Polls With Deft Moves Navigating Quota Quagmire
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
PM Modi's Degree Case: Gujarat HC Quashes CIC's Order; Imposes Rs 25,000 Cost On Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
US: Georgia Legislature Passes First-Ever County Resolution Condemning Hinduphobia And Anti-Hindu Bigotry
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
'They Are Creating Jobs In Australia': Australian Trade Minister Welcomes Adani Group's Investment
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
Tamil Nadu: Aavin Milk Shortage Issue Rears Its Head Again Amidst Row Over Now Withdrawn FSSAI Circular To Use Hindi Word 'Dahi' In Curd Packets
About Swarajya
Swarajya is a publication by Kovai Media Private Limited.

Swarajya - a big tent for liberal right of centre discourse that reaches out, engages and caters to the new India.

editor@swarajyamag.com
Useful Links
About Us
Subscriptions Support
Editorial Philosophy
Press Kit
Fact Check
Gift Swarajya
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Code of Conduct
Plagiarism Policy
Refund & Cancellation Policy
Participate
Contact Us
Write for us
Style Guide
Advertise
Jobs
Stay Connected


Copyright: Kovai Media Private Limited. All Rights Reserved.
Powered by Quintype